docs/configuration/targets/ibm/ibm-event-streams.mdx, before:

# IBM Event Streams

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">IBM Cloud</span><span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Message Queue</span>

Send processed telemetry data to IBM Event Streams managed Kafka service.

## Synopsis

The IBM Event Streams target writes log messages to IBM's managed Kafka service on IBM Cloud with full Kafka API compatibility. IBM Event Streams provides enterprise-grade messaging with automatic scaling, high availability, and IBM Cloud integration. Configuration follows Apache Kafka patterns with IBM Cloud-specific authentication.

## Schema

```yaml {2,4,6-7,9-12,14-17}
targets:
  - name: <string>
    type: kafka
    properties:
      address: <string>
      port: <integer>
      client_id: <string>
      topic: <string>
      algorithm: <string>
      username: <string>
      password: <string>
      compression: <string>
      compression_level: <string>
      acknowledgments: <string>
      allow_auto_topic_creation: <boolean>
      disable_idempotent_write: <boolean>
      max_bytes: <integer>
      max_events: <integer>
      tls:
        status: <boolean>
        insecure_skip_verify: <boolean>
        min_tls_version: <string>
        max_tls_version: <string>
        cert_name: <string>
        key_name: <string>
        passphrase: <string>
      field_format: <string>
      interval: <string/numeric>
      cron: <string>
```

## Configuration

### Base Target Fields

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `name` | string | Y | Unique identifier for this target |
| `description` | string | N | Human-readable description |
| `type` | string | Y | Must be `kafka` |
| `pipelines` | array | N | Pipeline names to apply before sending |
| `status` | boolean | N | Enable (true) or disable (false) this target |

### IBM Event Streams Connection

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `address` | string | Y | IBM Event Streams broker address (from service credentials) |
| `port` | integer | N | Kafka broker port. Default: `9093` |
| `client_id` | string | N | Client identifier for connection tracking |
| `topic` | string | Y | Kafka topic name for message delivery |

### Authentication

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `algorithm` | string | N | Authentication mechanism. Default: `scram-sha-512` |
| `username` | string | Y | IBM Event Streams username (from service credentials) |
| `password` | string | Y | IBM Event Streams password (from service credentials) |

### Producer Settings

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `compression` | string | N | Message compression (`none`, `gzip`, `snappy`, `lz4`, `zstd`). Default: `none` |
| `compression_level` | string | N | Compression level (algorithm-specific) |
| `acknowledgments` | string | N | Acknowledgment level (`none`, `leader`, `all`). Default: `leader` |
| `allow_auto_topic_creation` | boolean | N | Allow automatic topic creation. Default: `false` |
| `disable_idempotent_write` | boolean | N | Disable idempotent producer. Default: `false` |

### Batch Configuration

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `max_bytes` | integer | N | Maximum batch size in bytes (0 = unlimited). Default: `0` |
| `max_events` | integer | N | Maximum number of events per batch. Default: `1000` |

### TLS Configuration

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `tls.status` | boolean | N | Enable TLS encryption. Default: `true` (required for IBM Cloud) |
| `tls.insecure_skip_verify` | boolean | N | Skip TLS certificate verification. Default: `false` |
| `tls.min_tls_version` | string | N | Minimum TLS version. Default: `tls1.2` |
| `tls.max_tls_version` | string | N | Maximum TLS version. Default: `tls1.3` |
| `tls.cert_name` | string | N | Client certificate filename (PEM format) |
| `tls.key_name` | string | N | Client private key filename (PEM format) |
| `tls.passphrase` | string | N | Private key passphrase if encrypted |

### Normalization

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `field_format` | string | N | Apply format normalization (`ECS`, `ASIM`, `UDM`) |

### Scheduler

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `interval` | string/numeric | N | Execution frequency (realtime by default) |
| `cron` | string | N | Cron expression for scheduled execution |

## Details

### IBM Event Streams Overview

IBM Event Streams is a fully managed Kafka service offering:

- **Enterprise Reliability**: Multi-zone availability and automatic failover
- **Kafka Compatibility**: Full Apache Kafka API compatibility
- **IBM Cloud Integration**: IAM authentication and Cloud Pak integration
- **Automatic Scaling**: Elastic capacity based on workload
- **Managed Operations**: Automated patching and monitoring
- **Security**: Encryption at rest and in transit

### Authentication

**SASL/SCRAM-SHA-512**:
- IBM Event Streams uses SASL/SCRAM-SHA-512 authentication
- Set `algorithm: scram-sha-512` (default for IBM Event Streams)
- Username and password from IBM Cloud service credentials
- TLS encryption required for authentication

**Service Credentials**:
- Obtain credentials from IBM Cloud console
- Navigate to Event Streams instance � Service Credentials
- Create new credentials with appropriate permissions
- Extract `kafka_brokers_sasl`, `user`, and `password` values

:::note Service Credential Format
IBM Event Streams service credentials include:
- `kafka_brokers_sasl`: Array of broker addresses
- `user`: SASL username for authentication
- `password`: SASL password for authentication
- Use any broker address from the array
:::

### Connection Configuration

**Broker Addresses**:
- IBM Event Streams provides multiple broker endpoints
- Format: `broker-0.kafka.svc01.us-south.eventstreams.cloud.ibm.com:9093`
- Use any broker from service credentials
- Default port: `9093` (SASL_SSL)

**TLS Requirements**:
- TLS encryption mandatory for IBM Cloud connections
- Set `tls.status: true` (default)
- IBM Event Streams uses valid certificates
- No need for custom CA certificates

### Topic Management

**Topic Creation**:
- Pre-create topics in IBM Cloud console
- Configure `allow_auto_topic_creation: true` for automatic creation (not recommended)
- Topic configuration managed through IBM Cloud UI or CLI

**Topic Permissions**:
- Service credentials grant topic-level permissions
- Writer role required for producing messages
- Configure permissions in IBM Cloud console

### Performance Optimization

**Batch Configuration**:
- Larger batches improve throughput
- Balance batch size against latency requirements
- IBM Event Streams handles high-throughput workloads

**Compression**:
- Enable compression to reduce bandwidth costs
- Recommended: `snappy` (fast) or `zstd` (high compression)
- Compression reduces network transfer and storage

**Connection Pooling**:
- Maintains persistent connection to IBM Event Streams
- Automatic reconnection on connection loss
- Configurable client ID for connection tracking

:::warning IBM Cloud Pricing
IBM Event Streams charges based on throughput and storage. Enable compression and tune batch sizes to optimize costs.
:::

### Kafka API Compatibility

**Supported Features**:
- Kafka Producer API
- Idempotent writes
- Batch compression
- SASL authentication
- TLS encryption

**IBM Cloud Enhancements**:
- Enterprise SLA guarantees
- Multi-zone high availability
- Automated disaster recovery
- IBM Cloud IAM integration

### Security Best Practices

**Credential Management**:
- Store service credentials in environment variables
- Rotate credentials periodically
- Use separate credentials for different environments

**TLS Configuration**:
- Always enable TLS for production (mandatory for IBM Cloud)
- Verify server certificates (`insecure_skip_verify: false`)
- IBM Event Streams uses valid public certificates

**Access Control**:
- Use IBM Cloud IAM for fine-grained permissions
- Create service-specific credentials
- Monitor credential usage through IBM Cloud

## Examples

### Basic Configuration

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Sending logs to IBM Event Streams using SASL/SCRAM authentication...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: ibm-event-streams
        type: kafka
        properties:
          address: broker-0.kafka.svc01.us-south.eventstreams.cloud.ibm.com
          port: 9093
          topic: application-logs
          algorithm: scram-sha-512
          username: "${IBM_ES_USERNAME}"
          password: "${IBM_ES_PASSWORD}"
          tls:
            status: true
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### With Compression

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Enabling Snappy compression for bandwidth efficiency...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: ibm-event-streams-compressed
        type: kafka
        properties:
          address: broker-0.kafka.svc01.us-south.eventstreams.cloud.ibm.com
          port: 9093
          topic: telemetry-events
          algorithm: scram-sha-512
          username: "${IBM_ES_USERNAME}"
          password: "${IBM_ES_PASSWORD}"
          compression: snappy
          tls:
            status: true
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### High-Volume Configuration

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Optimizing for high-volume ingestion with larger batches and compression...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: ibm-event-streams-high-volume
        type: kafka
        properties:
          address: broker-0.kafka.svc01.us-south.eventstreams.cloud.ibm.com
          port: 9093
          topic: metrics-stream
          algorithm: scram-sha-512
          username: "${IBM_ES_USERNAME}"
          password: "${IBM_ES_PASSWORD}"
          compression: zstd
          compression_level: "3"
          max_events: 1000
          max_bytes: 1048576
          acknowledgments: all
          tls:
            status: true
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### With Client Identification

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Using client ID for connection tracking and monitoring...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: ibm-event-streams-identified
        type: kafka
        properties:
          address: broker-0.kafka.svc01.us-south.eventstreams.cloud.ibm.com
          port: 9093
          client_id: datastream-director-01
          topic: security-logs
          algorithm: scram-sha-512
          username: "${IBM_ES_USERNAME}"
          password: "${IBM_ES_PASSWORD}"
          tls:
            status: true
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Multi-Topic Publishing

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Publishing different event types to separate topics...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: ibm-es-security
        type: kafka
        properties:
          address: broker-0.kafka.svc01.us-south.eventstreams.cloud.ibm.com
          port: 9093
          topic: security-events
          algorithm: scram-sha-512
          username: "${IBM_ES_USERNAME}"
          password: "${IBM_ES_PASSWORD}"
          tls:
            status: true

      - name: ibm-es-application
        type: kafka
        properties:
          address: broker-0.kafka.svc01.us-south.eventstreams.cloud.ibm.com
          port: 9093
          topic: application-events
          algorithm: scram-sha-512
          username: "${IBM_ES_USERNAME}"
          password: "${IBM_ES_PASSWORD}"
          tls:
            status: true
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### With Normalization

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Applying ECS normalization before sending to IBM Event Streams...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: ibm-event-streams-normalized
        type: kafka
        properties:
          address: broker-0.kafka.svc01.us-south.eventstreams.cloud.ibm.com
          port: 9093
          topic: normalized-events
          algorithm: scram-sha-512
          username: "${IBM_ES_USERNAME}"
          password: "${IBM_ES_PASSWORD}"
          field_format: ECS
          compression: zstd
          tls:
            status: true
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Production Configuration

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Production-ready IBM Event Streams configuration with compression, batching, TLS, and full acknowledgments...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: ibm-event-streams-production
        type: kafka
        properties:
          address: broker-0.kafka.svc01.us-south.eventstreams.cloud.ibm.com
          port: 9093
          client_id: datastream-production-01
          topic: production-telemetry
          algorithm: scram-sha-512
          username: "${IBM_ES_USERNAME}"
          password: "${IBM_ES_PASSWORD}"
          compression: zstd
          compression_level: "3"
          acknowledgments: all
          max_events: 1000
          max_bytes: 1048576
          field_format: ASIM
          tls:
            status: true
            min_tls_version: tls1.2
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

Commit message:

Refactor documentation for various cloud and messaging targets by simplifying section titles and removing redundant descriptions for clarity and conciseness.

docs/configuration/targets/ibm/ibm-event-streams.mdx, after:

# IBM Event Streams

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">IBM Cloud</span><span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Message Queue</span>

Send processed telemetry data to IBM Event Streams managed Kafka service.

## Synopsis

The IBM Event Streams target writes log messages to IBM's managed Kafka service on IBM Cloud with full Kafka API compatibility. IBM Event Streams provides enterprise-grade messaging with automatic scaling, high availability, and IBM Cloud integration. Configuration follows Apache Kafka patterns with IBM Cloud-specific authentication.

## Schema

```yaml {2,4,6-7,9-12,14-17}
targets:
  - name: <string>
    type: kafka
    properties:
      address: <string>
      port: <integer>
      client_id: <string>
      topic: <string>
      algorithm: <string>
      username: <string>
      password: <string>
      compression: <string>
      compression_level: <string>
      acknowledgments: <string>
      allow_auto_topic_creation: <boolean>
      disable_idempotent_write: <boolean>
      max_bytes: <integer>
      max_events: <integer>
      tls:
        status: <boolean>
        insecure_skip_verify: <boolean>
        min_tls_version: <string>
        max_tls_version: <string>
        cert_name: <string>
        key_name: <string>
        passphrase: <string>
      field_format: <string>
      interval: <string/numeric>
      cron: <string>
```

## Configuration

### Base Target Fields

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `name` | string | Y | Unique identifier for this target |
| `description` | string | N | Human-readable description |
| `type` | string | Y | Must be `kafka` |
| `pipelines` | array | N | Pipeline names to apply before sending |
| `status` | boolean | N | Enable (true) or disable (false) this target |

### IBM Event Streams Connection

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `address` | string | Y | IBM Event Streams broker address (from service credentials) |
| `port` | integer | N | Kafka broker port. Default: `9093` |
| `client_id` | string | N | Client identifier for connection tracking |
| `topic` | string | Y | Kafka topic name for message delivery |

### Authentication

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `algorithm` | string | N | Authentication mechanism. Default: `scram-sha-512` |
| `username` | string | Y | IBM Event Streams username (from service credentials) |
| `password` | string | Y | IBM Event Streams password (from service credentials) |

### Producer Settings

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `compression` | string | N | Message compression (`none`, `gzip`, `snappy`, `lz4`, `zstd`). Default: `none` |
| `compression_level` | string | N | Compression level (algorithm-specific) |
| `acknowledgments` | string | N | Acknowledgment level (`none`, `leader`, `all`). Default: `leader` |
| `allow_auto_topic_creation` | boolean | N | Allow automatic topic creation. Default: `false` |
| `disable_idempotent_write` | boolean | N | Disable idempotent producer. Default: `false` |

### Batch Configuration

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `max_bytes` | integer | N | Maximum batch size in bytes (0 = unlimited). Default: `0` |
| `max_events` | integer | N | Maximum number of events per batch. Default: `1000` |

### TLS Configuration

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `tls.status` | boolean | N | Enable TLS encryption. Default: `true` (required for IBM Cloud) |
| `tls.insecure_skip_verify` | boolean | N | Skip TLS certificate verification. Default: `false` |
| `tls.min_tls_version` | string | N | Minimum TLS version. Default: `tls1.2` |
| `tls.max_tls_version` | string | N | Maximum TLS version. Default: `tls1.3` |
| `tls.cert_name` | string | N | Client certificate filename (PEM format) |
| `tls.key_name` | string | N | Client private key filename (PEM format) |
| `tls.passphrase` | string | N | Private key passphrase if encrypted |

### Normalization

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `field_format` | string | N | Apply format normalization (`ECS`, `ASIM`, `UDM`) |

### Scheduler

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `interval` | string/numeric | N | Execution frequency (realtime by default) |
| `cron` | string | N | Cron expression for scheduled execution |

## Details

### Authentication

**SASL/SCRAM-SHA-512**:
- IBM Event Streams uses SASL/SCRAM-SHA-512 authentication
- Set `algorithm: scram-sha-512` (default for IBM Event Streams)
- Username and password from IBM Cloud service credentials
- TLS encryption required for authentication

**Service Credentials**:
- Obtain credentials from IBM Cloud console
- Navigate to Event Streams instance � Service Credentials
- Create new credentials with appropriate permissions
- Extract `kafka_brokers_sasl`, `user`, and `password` values

:::note Service Credential Format
IBM Event Streams service credentials include:
- `kafka_brokers_sasl`: Array of broker addresses
- `user`: SASL username for authentication
- `password`: SASL password for authentication
- Use any broker address from the array
:::

### Connection Configuration

**Broker Addresses**:
- IBM Event Streams provides multiple broker endpoints
- Format: `broker-0.kafka.svc01.us-south.eventstreams.cloud.ibm.com:9093`
- Use any broker from service credentials
- Default port: `9093` (SASL_SSL)

**TLS Requirements**:
- TLS encryption mandatory for IBM Cloud connections
- Set `tls.status: true` (default)
- IBM Event Streams uses valid certificates
- No need for custom CA certificates

### Topic Management

**Topic Creation**:
- Pre-create topics in IBM Cloud console
- Configure `allow_auto_topic_creation: true` for automatic creation (not recommended)
- Topic configuration managed through IBM Cloud UI or CLI

**Topic Permissions**:
- Service credentials grant topic-level permissions
- Writer role required for producing messages
- Configure permissions in IBM Cloud console

### Performance Optimization

**Batch Configuration**:
- Larger batches improve throughput
- Balance batch size against latency requirements
- IBM Event Streams handles high-throughput workloads

**Compression**:
- Enable compression to reduce bandwidth costs
- Recommended: `snappy` (fast) or `zstd` (high compression)
- Compression reduces network transfer and storage

**Connection Pooling**:
- Maintains persistent connection to IBM Event Streams
- Automatic reconnection on connection loss
- Configurable client ID for connection tracking

:::warning IBM Cloud Pricing
IBM Event Streams charges based on throughput and storage. Enable compression and tune batch sizes to optimize costs.
:::

### Kafka API Compatibility

DataStream uses the standard Kafka Producer API with support for:
- Idempotent writes
- Batch compression
- SASL authentication
- TLS encryption

### Security Best Practices

**Credential Management**:
- Store service credentials in environment variables
- Rotate credentials periodically
- Use separate credentials for different environments

**TLS Configuration**:
- Always enable TLS for production (mandatory for IBM Cloud)
- Verify server certificates (`insecure_skip_verify: false`)
- IBM Event Streams uses valid public certificates

**Access Control**:
- Use IBM Cloud IAM for fine-grained permissions
- Create service-specific credentials
- Monitor credential usage through IBM Cloud

## Examples

### Basic Configuration

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Sending logs to IBM Event Streams using SASL/SCRAM authentication...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: ibm-event-streams
        type: kafka
        properties:
          address: broker-0.kafka.svc01.us-south.eventstreams.cloud.ibm.com
          port: 9093
          topic: application-logs
          algorithm: scram-sha-512
          username: "${IBM_ES_USERNAME}"
          password: "${IBM_ES_PASSWORD}"
          tls:
            status: true
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### With Compression

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Enabling Snappy compression for bandwidth efficiency...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: ibm-event-streams-compressed
        type: kafka
        properties:
          address: broker-0.kafka.svc01.us-south.eventstreams.cloud.ibm.com
          port: 9093
          topic: telemetry-events
          algorithm: scram-sha-512
          username: "${IBM_ES_USERNAME}"
          password: "${IBM_ES_PASSWORD}"
          compression: snappy
          tls:
            status: true
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### High-Volume Configuration

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Optimizing for high-volume ingestion with larger batches and compression...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: ibm-event-streams-high-volume
        type: kafka
        properties:
          address: broker-0.kafka.svc01.us-south.eventstreams.cloud.ibm.com
          port: 9093
          topic: metrics-stream
          algorithm: scram-sha-512
          username: "${IBM_ES_USERNAME}"
          password: "${IBM_ES_PASSWORD}"
          compression: zstd
          compression_level: "3"
          max_events: 1000
          max_bytes: 1048576
          acknowledgments: all
          tls:
            status: true
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### With Client Identification

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Using client ID for connection tracking and monitoring...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: ibm-event-streams-identified
        type: kafka
        properties:
          address: broker-0.kafka.svc01.us-south.eventstreams.cloud.ibm.com
          port: 9093
          client_id: datastream-director-01
          topic: security-logs
          algorithm: scram-sha-512
          username: "${IBM_ES_USERNAME}"
          password: "${IBM_ES_PASSWORD}"
          tls:
            status: true
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Multi-Topic Publishing

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Publishing different event types to separate topics...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: ibm-es-security
        type: kafka
        properties:
          address: broker-0.kafka.svc01.us-south.eventstreams.cloud.ibm.com
          port: 9093
          topic: security-events
          algorithm: scram-sha-512
          username: "${IBM_ES_USERNAME}"
          password: "${IBM_ES_PASSWORD}"
          tls:
            status: true

      - name: ibm-es-application
        type: kafka
        properties:
          address: broker-0.kafka.svc01.us-south.eventstreams.cloud.ibm.com
          port: 9093
          topic: application-events
          algorithm: scram-sha-512
          username: "${IBM_ES_USERNAME}"
          password: "${IBM_ES_PASSWORD}"
          tls:
            status: true
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### With Normalization

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Applying ECS normalization before sending to IBM Event Streams...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: ibm-event-streams-normalized
        type: kafka
        properties:
          address: broker-0.kafka.svc01.us-south.eventstreams.cloud.ibm.com
          port: 9093
          topic: normalized-events
          algorithm: scram-sha-512
          username: "${IBM_ES_USERNAME}"
          password: "${IBM_ES_PASSWORD}"
          field_format: ECS
          compression: zstd
          tls:
            status: true
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Production Configuration

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Production-ready IBM Event Streams configuration with compression, batching, TLS, and full acknowledgments...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: ibm-event-streams-production
        type: kafka
        properties:
          address: broker-0.kafka.svc01.us-south.eventstreams.cloud.ibm.com
          port: 9093
          client_id: datastream-production-01
          topic: production-telemetry
          algorithm: scram-sha-512
          username: "${IBM_ES_USERNAME}"
          password: "${IBM_ES_PASSWORD}"
          compression: zstd
          compression_level: "3"
          acknowledgments: all
          max_events: 1000
          max_bytes: 1048576
          field_format: ASIM
          tls:
            status: true
            min_tls_version: tls1.2
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>
