docs/gui/fleet-management/devices/creating-pull-devices.mdx, before:

# Creating Pull Devices

To create a pull device:

- In the **Home** view, click **Fleet Management**&nbsp;>&nbsp;**Devices**

-or-

- From the hamburger menu on the top left, select **Fleet Management**&nbsp;>&nbsp;**Devices**

Then, in the **Devices** view, click the **Windows** pull device card.

:::note
Currently, only Windows pull devices can be created. The example below uses Windows.
:::

This takes you to the configuration view of the selected pull device type.

To create a new device, click the blue **Add new device** button on the top right.

This takes you to the first tab of the creation process.

## Setup Device

On this tab, you will find the following sections:

### Choose Setup Method for Device

#### Define Device Details

- **Name** (Required) - The name of your device. Must be unique
- **Director** (Required) - The director that the device will be attached to. Pick one from the dropdown

### Choose Deployment Type

There are two deployment types:

  - **Agent** - Installs a lightweight **Agent** that sets up the device in your environment.

    Selecting this turns the button to **Create device**. Clicking the button takes you directly to the [**Install and Connect**](#install-and-connect-agent) tab for Agent.

  - **Agentless** - Uses autodetect to set up the device in your environment.
  
    Selecting this turns the button to **Next step**. Clicking the button takes you to the [**Install and Connect**](#install-and-connect-agentless) tab for Agentless.
## Install and Connect - Agent

On this tab, we will find a box containing an API key and a script. You will use this to install **Agent**.

<Include id="admin-for-installation-script" />

- Open a terminal window with admin access
- Copy the above-mentioned key and script
- Paste it in the prompt
- Press <kb-short>Enter</kb-short> to start running the script

This will take a few minutes to complete.

To the right, you will see a **Verify connection** button. Clicking this button starts sending a request to check whether a **Agent** has been installed.

Once the connection is verified, you will be prompted with a **Connection succesful** message.

<Include id="connection-verification-failure" />

If the connection is not verified, you can use the **Connect Later** button to defer this installation step. However, the not-yet-enabled agent will still appear on the agents list.

Clicking this button takes you to the [**Review and Configure**](#review-and-configure) tab.

## Install and Connect - Agentless
## Install and Connect - Agentless

This view has the following sections:

#### Configure Remote Access

- **IP Address** - Enter the IP address of the target system
- **Port** - Enter the port used for remote access
- **Active Directory Authentication** - **AD** authentication settings

  When this option is disabled, three fields are displayed:

  - **Username** (Required) - **AD** username
  - **Password** (Required) - **AD** password
  - **Domain** (Optional) - **AD** domain

  The director will access the target system at the specified IP address using these credentials to validate remote access and permissions. No agent is deployed in this method.

  When enabled, authentication is handled automatically by **DataStream** with the user's organiation credentials.
The **Check access** button verifies that the authentication credentials are valid.

Clicking the blue **Create Device** button takes you to the [**Review and Configure**](#review-and-configure) tab.

## Review and Configure

This optional step's view has the following section.

#### Select Log Types

- **Windows Security Events** - Enable/disable log collection. Used to select what type of data will be collected. There are three choices:

  - **All** - Collects all **Windows** security and **AppLocker** event. The most comprehensive option
  - **Common** - Collects the standard event set for audit purposes. Sufficient for general security monitorin
  - **Minimal** - Collects a small subset of events that may reveal potential threats
  - **Custom** - The user specifies their own filters using XML-based filter definitions.

Commit message:

Fixes on GUI devices and targets

docs/gui/fleet-management/devices/creating-pull-devices.mdx, after:

# Creating Pull Devices

To create a pull device:

- In the **Home** view, click **Fleet Management**&nbsp;>&nbsp;**Devices**

-or-

- From the hamburger menu on the top left, select **Fleet Management**&nbsp;>&nbsp;**Devices**

Then, in the **Devices** view, click the **Windows** pull device card.

:::note
Currently, only Windows pull devices can be created. The example below uses Windows.
:::

This takes you to the configuration view of the selected pull device type.

To create a new device, click the blue **Add new device** button on the top right.

This takes you to the first tab of the creation process.

## Setup Device

On this tab, you will find the following sections:

### Choose Setup Method for Device

#### Define Device Details

- **Name** (Required) - The name of your device. Must be unique.
- **Director** (Required) - The director to attach the device to. Select from the dropdown.

### Choose Deployment Type

There are two deployment types:

  - **Agent** - Installs a lightweight **Agent** that sets up the device in your environment.

    Selecting this turns the button to **Create device**. Clicking the button takes you directly to the [**Install and Connect**](#install-and-connect---agent) tab for Agent.

  - **Agentless** - Uses auto-detection to set up the device in your environment.
  
    Selecting this changes the primary button label to **Next step**. Clicking the button takes you to the [**Install and Connect**](#install-and-connect---agentless) tab for Agentless.

## Install and Connect - Agent

On this tab, we will find a box containing an API key and a script. You will use this to install **Agent**.

<Include id="admin-for-installation-script" />

- Open a terminal window with administrator privileges.
- Copy the key and script above.
- Paste them into the terminal.
- Press <kb-short>Enter</kb-short> to run the script.

This will take a few minutes to complete.

To the right, you will see a **Verify connection** button. Clicking this button starts sending a request to check whether a **Agent** has been installed.

Once the connection is verified, a **Connection successful** message is displayed.

<Include id="connection-verification-failure" />

If the connection is not verified, you can use the **Connect Later** button to defer this installation step. However, the not-yet-enabled agent will still appear on the devices list.

Clicking this button takes you to the [**Review and Configure**](#review-and-configure) tab.

## Install and Connect - Agentless

This view has the following sections:

#### Configure Remote Access

- **IP Address** - Enter the IP address of the target system
- **Port** - Enter the port used for remote access
- **Active Directory Authentication** - **AD** authentication settings

  When this option is disabled, three fields are displayed:

  - **Username** (Required) - **AD** username
  - **Password** (Required) - **AD** password
  - **Domain** (Optional) - **AD** domain

  The director will access the target system at the specified IP address using these credentials to validate remote access and permissions. No agent is deployed in this method.

  When enabled, authentication is handled automatically by **DataStream** with your organization’s credentials.

The **Check Access** button verifies that the authentication credentials are valid.

Clicking the blue **Create Device** button takes you to the [**Review and Configure**](#review-and-configure) tab.

## Review and Configure

This optional step's view has the following section.

#### Select Log Types

- **Windows Security Events** - Enable/disable log collection. Used to select what type of data will be collected. There are three choices:

  - **All** - Collects all **Windows** security and **AppLocker** event. The most comprehensive option.
  - **Common** - Collects the standard event set for audit purposes. Sufficient for general security monitoring.
  - **Minimal** - Collects a small subset of events that may reveal potential threats.
  - **Custom** - The user specifies their own filters using XML-based filter definitions.
