docs/gui/fleet-management/devices/creating-push-devices.mdx, before:

# Creating Push Devices

To create a push device:

- In the **Home** view, click **Fleet Management**&nbsp;>&nbsp;**Devices**

-or-

- From the hamburger menu on the top left, select **Fleet Management**&nbsp;>&nbsp;**Devices**

Then, in the **Devices** view, click the card of your push device type (Syslog, HTTP, UDP, TCP, or eStreamer).

:::note
Since only specific devices can be created, we will discuss a _Syslog_ device below.
:::

This takes you to the configuration view of the selected push device type.

To create a new device, click the blue **Add new device** button on the top right.

## Add New Device

On the first tab of this view, you will find the **General Settings** of the device.

:::info
These fields are present on all device types, and they correspond to their basic YAML configuration. See <Topic id="devices-overview-config">**this section**</Topic> for details.
:::

### General Settings

The elements on this tab:

- **Name** (Required) - Enter a name for the device. Must be unique
- **Description** (Optional) - Add a description for the device's purpose
- **Tags** (Optional) - Place labels for documentation and filtering purposes
- **Device Status** - Toggle button to enable/disable the device
- **Director(s) for the Device** (Required) - Select one or more directors to attach the device. The number of selected directors is displayed
- **Preprocessing pipeline** (Optional) - Seleect a pipeline to preprocess the ingested data (See <Topic id="normalization">**this section**</Topic> for more details.)

To exit device creation, click **Cancel**, to continue click **Next step**.

### Device Protocol Settings

The elements on this tab:

- **Authentication Protocol** - The protocol used to authenticate the device&mdash;e.g., UDP or TCP for _Syslog_
- **IP Address** (Optional) - Enter a standart IP address for the device to listen on incoming data. By default `0.0.0.0`
- **Port** - The port number the devices listens on the incoming data. The default is device type-specific. Must be unique.

To return to the previous step click **Back**, to continue click **Next step**.

### Advanced Device Configuration

The elements on this tab are grouped in three sections:

#### Performance

- **Socket address reuse** - Enable/disable socket address reuse
- **Workers** (Optional) - Number of worker processes when reuse is enabled. By default 0 for maximum
- **Max Connections** (Optional) - Maximum number of concurrent connections using the selected protocol. By default 1000
- **Timeout** (optional) - Connection timeout in seconds. By default, 300
- **Max Message Size** (Optional) - Maximum size of message in MB. By default, 20 MB
- **Buffer Size** (Optional) - Network read buffer size in bytes. By default, 9000

#### Messages

- **Flush Interval** - Message flush interval in seconds (optional). By default, 1
- **Queue Interval** - Queue processing interval in seconds (optional). By default, 1
- **Batch Size** - Number of messages to batch before flushing (optional). By default, 1000

#### Forwarding

- **Forward Messages** - Enable/disable forwarding messages

---

After making the required settings, click **Add device** to complete the process.

Commit message:

Add important notes regarding port requirements for pull and push devices, and update connection verification failure note style

docs/gui/fleet-management/devices/creating-push-devices.mdx, after:

# Creating Push Devices

To create a push device:

- In the **Home** view, click **Fleet Management**&nbsp;>&nbsp;**Devices**

-or-

- From the hamburger menu on the top left, select **Fleet Management**&nbsp;>&nbsp;**Devices**

Then, in the **Devices** view, click the card of your push device type (Syslog, HTTP, UDP, TCP, or eStreamer).

:::note
Since only specific devices can be created, we will discuss a _Syslog_ device below.
:::

This takes you to the configuration view of the selected push device type.

To create a new device, click the blue **Add new device** button on the top right.

## Add New Device

On the first tab of this view, you will find the **General Settings** of the device.

:::info
These fields are present on all device types, and they correspond to their basic YAML configuration. See <Topic id="devices-overview-config">**this section**</Topic> for details.
:::

### General Settings

The elements on this tab:

- **Name** (Required) - Enter a name for the device. Must be unique
- **Description** (Optional) - Add a description for the device's purpose
- **Tags** (Optional) - Place labels for documentation and filtering purposes
- **Device Status** - Toggle button to enable/disable the device
- **Director(s) for the Device** (Required) - Select one or more directors to attach the device. The number of selected directors is displayed
- **Preprocessing pipeline** (Optional) - Seleect a pipeline to preprocess the ingested data (See <Topic id="normalization">**this section**</Topic> for more details.)

To exit device creation, click **Cancel**, to continue click **Next step**.

### Device Protocol Settings

The elements on this tab:

- **Authentication Protocol** - The protocol used to authenticate the device&mdash;e.g., UDP or TCP for _Syslog_
- **IP Address** (Optional) - Enter a standart IP address for the device to listen on incoming data. By default `0.0.0.0`
- **Port** - The port number the devices listens on the incoming data. The default is device type-specific. Must be unique.

:::info Important
The ports of the added push devices must be open.
:::

To return to the previous step click **Back**, to continue click **Next step**.

### Advanced Device Configuration

The elements on this tab are grouped in three sections:

#### Performance

- **Socket address reuse** - Enable/disable socket address reuse
- **Workers** (Optional) - Number of worker processes when reuse is enabled. By default 0 for maximum
- **Max Connections** (Optional) - Maximum number of concurrent connections using the selected protocol. By default 1000
- **Timeout** (optional) - Connection timeout in seconds. By default, 300
- **Max Message Size** (Optional) - Maximum size of message in MB. By default, 20 MB
- **Buffer Size** (Optional) - Network read buffer size in bytes. By default, 9000

#### Messages

- **Flush Interval** - Message flush interval in seconds (optional). By default, 1
- **Queue Interval** - Queue processing interval in seconds (optional). By default, 1
- **Batch Size** - Number of messages to batch before flushing (optional). By default, 1000

#### Forwarding

- **Forward Messages** - Enable/disable forwarding messages

---

After making the required settings, click **Add device** to complete the process.
