docs/gui/fleet-management/devices/overview.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Overview
---

# Devices: Overview

This is where you configure and manage all your data ingestion devices.

The view contains the following elements:

- **Search box** - A text box where you can type the name of the device you are looking for.

- **Push** - The cards for network endpoints that receive incoming data (e.g., Syslog, HTTP, UDP, TCP, or eStreamer). These listen on specified ports and receive data from external sources. Each category shows enabled/disabled counters.

- **Pull** - The cards for local agents that communicate with **Director** to propogate ingestion logic (e.g., a _Windows_ device). These are installed on target systems to collect logs locally. They require an **Agent** installation and a valid and active connection to run.

The three buttons on the left; **All**, **Push**, and **Pull**  can also be used to filter device types, along with displaying the total number in each category.

The cards also display the number of devices of that type that have been _enabled_ and _disabled_ on your **DataStream** environment.

## Configuration view

Clicking on any of the cards takes you to the configuration view of that device type.

In this view, you will see the following elements:

- A **sidebar** enlisting the devices types found as cards on the **Devices** view

- A **search box** to type the name of a device to filter the list

- A **Director(s)** dropdown that enlists the various directors that devices of the current type created are attached to

- A **status** filter to select All, Enabled, Disabled devices

- The number of devices to view at a time

- A pagination control to select the page of the list to view

On the right, there is a blue **Add new device** button used to create new devices of that type.

In the main viewing area, you will find a table enlisting devices of the selected type. The table displays the properties of that device type as columns.

:::note
Since the table columns change based on the selected device type, we will describe the columns of _Syslog_ below.
:::

The table will have the following columns:

- **Name** - The name used to identify the device
- **Description** - A note about the device, frequently the purpose that it is created for
- **Director(s)** - The directors that the device is connected to to ingest data
- ** Preprocessing pipeline** - The pipeline attached to the device to preprocess that incoming data. See <Topic id="normalization">Normalization</Topic> for details
- **Port** - The port number that the device is listening on
- **Protocol** - The transfer protocol the device is using to ingest data
- **Status** - Whether the device is _Enabled_/_Disabled_

Commit message:

Fixes on GUI devices and targets

docs/gui/fleet-management/devices/overview.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Overview
---

# Devices: Overview

This is where you configure and manage all your data ingestion devices.

The view contains the following elements:

- **Search box** - A text box where you can type the name of the device you are looking for.

- **Push** - The cards for network endpoints that receive incoming data (e.g., Syslog, HTTP, UDP, TCP, or eStreamer). These listen on specified ports and receive data from external sources. Each category shows enabled/disabled counters.

Currently available push devices:

- <Topic id="devices-syslog">**Syslog**</Topic> devices receive system logs and events from network devices, servers, and applications using the standard syslog protocol.

- <Topic id="devices-http">**HTTP**</Topic> devices accept data submissions through HTTP/HTTPS endpoints for web-based log collection and API integrations.

- <Topic id="devices-udp">**UDP**</Topic> devices listen for connectionless data transmissions over UDP protocol for high-throughput, low-latency log ingestion.

- <Topic id="devices-tcp">**TCP**</Topic> devices establish reliable connection-based data streams over TCP protocol for guaranteed data delivery.

- <Topic id="devices-estreamer">**eStreamer**</Topic> devices integrate with Cisco security appliances to receive real-time event data and security intelligence feeds.

- **Pull** - The cards for local agents that communicate with **Director** to propogate ingestion logic (e.g., a _Windows_ device). These are installed on target systems to collect logs locally. They require an **Agent** installation and a valid and active connection to run.

Currently available pull devices:

- <Topic id="devices-windows">**Windows**</Topic> devices deploy local agents on Windows systems to collect logs, events, and performance metrics directly from the operating system.

The three buttons on the left; **All**, **Push**, and **Pull**  can also be used to filter device types, along with displaying the total number in each category.

The cards also display the number of devices of that type that have been _enabled_ and _disabled_ on your **DataStream** environment.

## Configuration view

Clicking on any of the cards takes you to the configuration view of that device type.

In this view, you will see the following elements:

- A **sidebar** enlisting the devices types found as cards on the **Devices** view

- A **search box** to type the name of a device to filter the list

- A **Director(s)** dropdown that enlists the various directors that devices of the current type created are attached to

- A **status** filter to select All, Enabled, Disabled devices

- The number of devices to view at a time

- A pagination control to select the page of the list to view

On the right, there is a blue **Add new device** button used to create new devices of that type.

In the main viewing area, you will find a table enlisting devices of the selected type. The table displays the properties of that device type as columns.

:::note
Since the table columns change based on the selected device type, we will describe the columns of _Syslog_ below.
:::

The table will have the following columns:

- **Name** - The name used to identify the device
- **Description** - A note about the device, frequently the purpose that it is created for
- **Director(s)** - The directors that the device is connected to to ingest data
- ** Preprocessing pipeline** - The pipeline attached to the device to preprocess that incoming data. See <Topic id="normalization">Normalization</Topic> for details
- **Port** - The port number that the device is listening on
- **Protocol** - The transfer protocol the device is using to ingest data
- **Status** - Whether the device is _Enabled_/_Disabled_
