docs/configuration/targets/gcp/google-secops.mdx, before:

# Google SecOps

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">GCP Security Target</span>

Send processed telemetry data to Google Security Operations (formerly Chronicle).

## Synopsis

The Google SecOps target forwards events to Google Security Operations using the Ingestion API. Supports both V1 and V2 API versions with unstructured logs or UDM (Unified Data Model) format submission.

## Schema

```yaml {2,4,5,8,11}
targets:
  - name: <string>
    type: gcpsecops
    properties:
      api_version: <string>
      send_events_as: <string>
      udm_type: <string>
      region: <string>
      customer_id: <string>
      authentication:
        method: <credentials|secret|apikey|apikeysecret>
      service_account_credentials: <string>
      service_account_credentials_secret: <string>
      api_key: <string>
      api_key_secret: <string>
      default_log_type: <string>
      log_text_field: <string>
      namespace: <string>
      custom_log_types:
        - log_type: <string>
          description: <string>
      labels:
        - key: <string>
          value: <string>
      batch_size: <integer>
      timeout: <integer>
      field_format: <string>
      debug:
        status: <boolean>
        dont_send_logs: <boolean>
```

## Configuration

### Base Target Fields

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `name` | string | Y | Unique identifier for this target |
| `description` | string | N | Human-readable description |
| `type` | string | Y | Must be `gcpsecops` |
| `pipelines` | array | N | Pipeline names to apply before sending |
| `status` | boolean | N | Enable (true) or disable (false) this target |

### API Configuration

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `api_version` | string | N | API version to use (`v1`, `v2`). Default: `v2` |
| `send_events_as` | string | N | Data format (`unstructured`, `udm`). Default: `unstructured` |
| `udm_type` | string | N* | UDM submission type (`logs`, `entities`). Default: `logs` |
| `region` | string | Y | SecOps ingestion region. See [Regions](#regions) |
| `customer_id` | string | Y* | Google SecOps customer ID |

\* `udm_type` required when `send_events_as: udm` with V2 API
\* `customer_id` required for V2 API

### Authentication

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `authentication.method` | string | N | Authentication method (`credentials`, `secret`, `apikey`, `apikeysecret`). Default: `credentials` |
| `service_account_credentials` | string | Y* | JSON service account credentials |
| `service_account_credentials_secret` | string | Y* | Environment variable containing service account JSON |
| `api_key` | string | Y* | API key for authentication (V1 only) |
| `api_key_secret` | string | Y* | Environment variable containing API key (V1 only) |

\* Required field depends on selected authentication method

### Unstructured Log Configuration

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `default_log_type` | string | Y* | Default log type name |
| `log_text_field` | string | N | Field name to use as log text. If not specified, entire JSON is used |
| `namespace` | string | N | SecOps namespace for log organization |
| `custom_log_types` | array | N | Custom log type definitions |
| `custom_log_types[].log_type` | string | Y | Log type name |
| `custom_log_types[].description` | string | N | Log type description |

\* `default_log_type` required when `send_events_as: unstructured`

### Labels

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `labels` | array | N | Custom labels to attach to events |
| `labels[].key` | string | Y | Label key |
| `labels[].value` | string | Y | Label value |

### Batch Configuration

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `batch_size` | integer | N | Maximum events per batch. Default: `1000` |
| `timeout` | integer | N | HTTP request timeout in seconds. Default: `30` |

### Normalization

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `field_format` | string | N | Apply format normalization (`ECS`, `ASIM`, `UDM`) |

### Debug Options

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `debug.status` | boolean | N | Enable debug logging |
| `debug.dont_send_logs` | boolean | N | Debug mode without sending (dry run) |

## Details

### Data Sending Options

DataStream supports two approaches for submitting events to Google SecOps:

**Unstructured Logs**:
- Send raw log data to SecOps
- SecOps applies built-in parsers to convert logs into UDM format
- Simpler configuration requiring only `default_log_type`
- SecOps handles parsing and normalization
- May encounter parsing issues with proprietary or uncommon log formats
- Best for standard log types with existing SecOps parser support

**Pre-Structured UDM Events**:
- Transform data into UDM format before sending
- Bypass SecOps parsing entirely
- Complete control over UDM field mapping
- Requires understanding of UDM schema structure
- Eliminates parsing errors and inconsistencies
- Best for custom data sources or precise field control

The choice between approaches depends on data complexity and control requirements. Unstructured logs offer simpler setup with SecOps-managed parsing. Pre-structured UDM provides precision but requires upstream transformation.

### Working with Unstructured Data

When using `send_events_as: unstructured`, log type assignment follows a hierarchical resolution:

**Log Type Assignment Hierarchy**:

1. **Event-level override**: Events with `__logType` field use that value
2. **Default assignment**: Events without `__logType` use `default_log_type` configuration
3. **Custom log types**: Use `custom_log_types` array for unsupported or deprecated types

**Standard Log Types**:

SecOps maintains a dynamic list of supported log types (e.g., `FIREWALL_LOG`, `WINDOWS_EVENT`, `SYSLOG`). The supported types evolve over time as SecOps adds new parsers and deprecates old ones.

**Custom Log Type Definition**:

For log sources without SecOps parser support, define custom log types:

```yaml
custom_log_types:
  - log_type: PROPRIETARY_APP_LOG
    description: Internal application security logs
  - log_type: LEGACY_FIREWALL
    description: Deprecated firewall format
```

Custom log types bypass standard SecOps parsing. Events are stored but may require custom SecOps rules for analysis.

**Log Text Field Selection**:

By default, the entire JSON event is sent as log text. Use `log_text_field` to extract a specific field:

```yaml
log_text_field: message  # Send only the 'message' field content
```

This is useful when the raw log text exists in a specific field while other fields contain metadata.

### Regions

Valid SecOps ingestion regions:

| Region Code | Location |
|-------------|----------|
| `us` | United States |
| `europe` | Europe (multi-region) |
| `northamerica-northeast2` | Toronto, Canada |
| `southamerica-east1` | S�o Paulo, Brazil |
| `europe-west2` | London, UK |
| `europe-west3` | Frankfurt, Germany |
| `europe-west6` | Zurich, Switzerland |
| `europe-west9` | Paris, France |
| `europe-west12` | Turin, Italy |
| `europe-central2` | Warsaw, Poland |
| `africa-south1` | Johannesburg, South Africa |
| `asia-northeast1` | Tokyo, Japan |
| `asia-south1` | Mumbai, India |
| `asia-southeast1` | Singapore |
| `asia-southeast2` | Jakarta, Indonesia |
| `australia-southeast1` | Sydney, Australia |
| `me-central1` | Doha, Qatar |
| `me-central2` | Dammam, Saudi Arabia |
| `me-west1` | Tel Aviv, Israel |

### API Version Selection

**V2 API (Recommended)**:
- Requires `customer_id` field
- Supports unstructured logs and UDM
- Regional endpoint support
- Enhanced entity submission

**V1 API**:
- API key authentication supported
- Legacy endpoint compatibility
- Limited to unstructured logs and UDM events

### Authentication Methods

**Service Account (OAuth2)**:
- `credentials`: Inline JSON service account
- `secret`: Service account JSON from environment variable

**API Key (V1 only)**:
- `apikey`: Inline API key
- `apikeysecret`: API key from environment variable

:::note Service Account Permissions
Service account requires the **Chronicle API Writer** role or equivalent permissions to ingest data into SecOps.
:::

### Data Format Options

**Unstructured Logs**:
- Raw log text submission
- Requires `default_log_type` field
- Optional custom log types for classification
- Best for text-based logs or pre-formatted data

**UDM (Unified Data Model)**:
- Structured event submission using SecOps UDM schema
- Use `udm_type: logs` for security events
- Use `udm_type: entities` for entity context (V2 only)
- Requires events in UDM format

:::warning UDM Format Requirements
When using `send_events_as: udm`, ensure events conform to Google SecOps UDM schema. Invalid UDM events will be rejected.
:::

### Dynamic Field Overrides

Events can override target settings using reserved fields:
- `__logType`: Override default log type per event
- `__namespace`: Override namespace per event

These fields are removed before submission.

## Examples

### Basic V2 Unstructured

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Sending unstructured logs to SecOps V2 API using service account authentication from environment variable...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: secops-unstructured
        type: gcpsecops
        properties:
          region: us
          api_version: v2
          send_events_as: unstructured
          customer_id: "${SECOPS_CUSTOMER_ID}"
          default_log_type: FIREWALL_LOG
          authentication:
            method: secret
            service_account_credentials_secret: GCP_SECOPS_CREDENTIALS
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### V2 with UDM Events

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Forwarding UDM-formatted security events to SecOps using inline service account credentials...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: secops-udm
        type: gcpsecops
        properties:
          region: europe
          api_version: v2
          send_events_as: udm
          udm_type: logs
          customer_id: "${SECOPS_CUSTOMER_ID}"
          authentication:
            method: credentials
            service_account_credentials: |
              {
                "type": "service_account",
                "project_id": "your-project-id",
                "private_key_id": "key-id",
                "private_key": "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\n...",
                "client_email": "secops@your-project.iam.gserviceaccount.com"
              }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### V1 with API Key

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Using V1 API with API key authentication stored in environment variable...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: secops-v1
        type: gcpsecops
        properties:
          region: us
          api_version: v1
          send_events_as: unstructured
          default_log_type: CUSTOM_LOG
          authentication:
            method: apikeysecret
            api_key_secret: SECOPS_API_KEY
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### With Custom Log Types

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Defining multiple custom log types for different Windows event categories...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: secops-custom-types
        type: gcpsecops
        properties:
          region: us
          api_version: v2
          send_events_as: unstructured
          customer_id: "${SECOPS_CUSTOMER_ID}"
          default_log_type: WINDOWS_EVENT
          custom_log_types:
            - log_type: WINDOWS_SECURITY
              description: Windows security event logs
            - log_type: WINDOWS_SYSTEM
              description: Windows system event logs
            - log_type: WINDOWS_APPLICATION
              description: Windows application event logs
          authentication:
            method: secret
            service_account_credentials_secret: GCP_SECOPS_CREDENTIALS
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### With Namespace and Labels

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Organizing logs with namespace and custom labels for production environment tracking...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: secops-labeled
        type: gcpsecops
        properties:
          region: europe-west2
          api_version: v2
          send_events_as: unstructured
          customer_id: "${SECOPS_CUSTOMER_ID}"
          default_log_type: NETWORK_LOG
          namespace: production
          labels:
            - key: environment
              value: production
            - key: datacenter
              value: eu-west-1
            - key: application
              value: firewall
          authentication:
            method: secret
            service_account_credentials_secret: GCP_SECOPS_CREDENTIALS
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### With Log Text Field

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Extracting specific field as log text instead of submitting entire JSON structure...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: secops-text-field
        type: gcpsecops
        properties:
          region: us
          api_version: v2
          send_events_as: unstructured
          customer_id: "${SECOPS_CUSTOMER_ID}"
          default_log_type: SYSLOG
          log_text_field: message
          authentication:
            method: secret
            service_account_credentials_secret: GCP_SECOPS_CREDENTIALS
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### V2 UDM Entities

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Submitting entity context data using V2 UDM entities endpoint...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: secops-entities
        type: gcpsecops
        properties:
          region: us
          api_version: v2
          send_events_as: udm
          udm_type: entities
          customer_id: "${SECOPS_CUSTOMER_ID}"
          authentication:
            method: secret
            service_account_credentials_secret: GCP_SECOPS_CREDENTIALS
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Production Configuration

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Production-ready configuration with custom log types, labels, and performance tuning...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: secops-production
        type: gcpsecops
        properties:
          region: us
          api_version: v2
          send_events_as: unstructured
          customer_id: "${SECOPS_CUSTOMER_ID}"
          default_log_type: SECURITY_EVENT
          namespace: production
          log_text_field: raw_log
          batch_size: 1000
          timeout: 30
          custom_log_types:
            - log_type: AUTH_SUCCESS
              description: Successful authentication events
            - log_type: AUTH_FAILURE
              description: Failed authentication attempts
            - log_type: POLICY_VIOLATION
              description: Security policy violations
          labels:
            - key: tenant
              value: enterprise
            - key: compliance
              value: pci-dss
          authentication:
            method: secret
            service_account_credentials_secret: GCP_SECOPS_CREDENTIALS
          debug:
            status: false
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

Commit message:

Add link to Google SecOps Parser List for supported default parsers

docs/configuration/targets/gcp/google-secops.mdx, after:

# Google SecOps

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">GCP Security Target</span>

Send processed telemetry data to Google Security Operations (formerly Chronicle).

## Synopsis

The Google SecOps target forwards events to Google Security Operations using the Ingestion API. Supports both V1 and V2 API versions with unstructured logs or UDM (Unified Data Model) format submission.

## Schema

```yaml {2,4,5,8,11}
targets:
  - name: <string>
    type: gcpsecops
    properties:
      api_version: <string>
      send_events_as: <string>
      udm_type: <string>
      region: <string>
      customer_id: <string>
      authentication:
        method: <credentials|secret|apikey|apikeysecret>
      service_account_credentials: <string>
      service_account_credentials_secret: <string>
      api_key: <string>
      api_key_secret: <string>
      default_log_type: <string>
      log_text_field: <string>
      namespace: <string>
      custom_log_types:
        - log_type: <string>
          description: <string>
      labels:
        - key: <string>
          value: <string>
      batch_size: <integer>
      timeout: <integer>
      field_format: <string>
      debug:
        status: <boolean>
        dont_send_logs: <boolean>
```

## Configuration

### Base Target Fields

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `name` | string | Y | Unique identifier for this target |
| `description` | string | N | Human-readable description |
| `type` | string | Y | Must be `gcpsecops` |
| `pipelines` | array | N | Pipeline names to apply before sending |
| `status` | boolean | N | Enable (true) or disable (false) this target |

### API Configuration

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `api_version` | string | N | API version to use (`v1`, `v2`). Default: `v2` |
| `send_events_as` | string | N | Data format (`unstructured`, `udm`). Default: `unstructured` |
| `udm_type` | string | N* | UDM submission type (`logs`, `entities`). Default: `logs` |
| `region` | string | Y | SecOps ingestion region. See [Regions](#regions) |
| `customer_id` | string | Y* | Google SecOps customer ID |

\* `udm_type` required when `send_events_as: udm` with V2 API
\* `customer_id` required for V2 API

### Authentication

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `authentication.method` | string | N | Authentication method (`credentials`, `secret`, `apikey`, `apikeysecret`). Default: `credentials` |
| `service_account_credentials` | string | Y* | JSON service account credentials |
| `service_account_credentials_secret` | string | Y* | Environment variable containing service account JSON |
| `api_key` | string | Y* | API key for authentication (V1 only) |
| `api_key_secret` | string | Y* | Environment variable containing API key (V1 only) |

\* Required field depends on selected authentication method

### Unstructured Log Configuration

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `default_log_type` | string | Y* | Default log type name |
| `log_text_field` | string | N | Field name to use as log text. If not specified, entire JSON is used |
| `namespace` | string | N | SecOps namespace for log organization |
| `custom_log_types` | array | N | Custom log type definitions |
| `custom_log_types[].log_type` | string | Y | Log type name |
| `custom_log_types[].description` | string | N | Log type description |

\* `default_log_type` required when `send_events_as: unstructured`

### Labels

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `labels` | array | N | Custom labels to attach to events |
| `labels[].key` | string | Y | Label key |
| `labels[].value` | string | Y | Label value |

### Batch Configuration

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `batch_size` | integer | N | Maximum events per batch. Default: `1000` |
| `timeout` | integer | N | HTTP request timeout in seconds. Default: `30` |

### Normalization

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `field_format` | string | N | Apply format normalization (`ECS`, `ASIM`, `UDM`) |

### Debug Options

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `debug.status` | boolean | N | Enable debug logging |
| `debug.dont_send_logs` | boolean | N | Debug mode without sending (dry run) |

## Details

### Data Sending Options

DataStream supports two approaches for submitting events to Google SecOps:

**Unstructured Logs**:
- Send raw log data to SecOps
- SecOps applies built-in parsers to convert logs into UDM format
- Simpler configuration requiring only `default_log_type`
- SecOps handles parsing and normalization
- May encounter parsing issues with proprietary or uncommon log formats
- Best for standard log types with existing SecOps parser support

**Pre-Structured UDM Events**:
- Transform data into UDM format before sending
- Bypass SecOps parsing entirely
- Complete control over UDM field mapping
- Requires understanding of UDM schema structure
- Eliminates parsing errors and inconsistencies
- Best for custom data sources or precise field control

The choice between approaches depends on data complexity and control requirements. Unstructured logs offer simpler setup with SecOps-managed parsing. Pre-structured UDM provides precision but requires upstream transformation.

### Working with Unstructured Data

When using `send_events_as: unstructured`, log type assignment follows a hierarchical resolution:

**Log Type Assignment Hierarchy**:

1. **Event-level override**: Events with `__logType` field use that value
2. **Default assignment**: Events without `__logType` use `default_log_type` configuration
3. **Custom log types**: Use `custom_log_types` array for unsupported or deprecated types

**Standard Log Types**:

SecOps maintains a dynamic list of supported log types (e.g., `FIREWALL_LOG`, `WINDOWS_EVENT`, `SYSLOG`). The supported types evolve over time as SecOps adds new parsers and deprecates old ones.

For the complete list of supported default parsers, see [Google SecOps Parser List](https://cloud.google.com/chronicle/docs/ingestion/parser-list/supported-default-parsers).

**Custom Log Type Definition**:

For log sources without SecOps parser support, define custom log types:

```yaml
custom_log_types:
  - log_type: PROPRIETARY_APP_LOG
    description: Internal application security logs
  - log_type: LEGACY_FIREWALL
    description: Deprecated firewall format
```

Custom log types bypass standard SecOps parsing. Events are stored but may require custom SecOps rules for analysis.

**Log Text Field Selection**:

By default, the entire JSON event is sent as log text. Use `log_text_field` to extract a specific field:

```yaml
log_text_field: message  # Send only the 'message' field content
```

This is useful when the raw log text exists in a specific field while other fields contain metadata.

### Regions

Valid SecOps ingestion regions:

| Region Code | Location |
|-------------|----------|
| `us` | United States |
| `europe` | Europe (multi-region) |
| `northamerica-northeast2` | Toronto, Canada |
| `southamerica-east1` | S�o Paulo, Brazil |
| `europe-west2` | London, UK |
| `europe-west3` | Frankfurt, Germany |
| `europe-west6` | Zurich, Switzerland |
| `europe-west9` | Paris, France |
| `europe-west12` | Turin, Italy |
| `europe-central2` | Warsaw, Poland |
| `africa-south1` | Johannesburg, South Africa |
| `asia-northeast1` | Tokyo, Japan |
| `asia-south1` | Mumbai, India |
| `asia-southeast1` | Singapore |
| `asia-southeast2` | Jakarta, Indonesia |
| `australia-southeast1` | Sydney, Australia |
| `me-central1` | Doha, Qatar |
| `me-central2` | Dammam, Saudi Arabia |
| `me-west1` | Tel Aviv, Israel |

### API Version Selection

**V2 API (Recommended)**:
- Requires `customer_id` field
- Supports unstructured logs and UDM
- Regional endpoint support
- Enhanced entity submission

**V1 API**:
- API key authentication supported
- Legacy endpoint compatibility
- Limited to unstructured logs and UDM events

### Authentication Methods

**Service Account (OAuth2)**:
- `credentials`: Inline JSON service account
- `secret`: Service account JSON from environment variable

**API Key (V1 only)**:
- `apikey`: Inline API key
- `apikeysecret`: API key from environment variable

:::note Service Account Permissions
Service account requires the **Chronicle API Writer** role or equivalent permissions to ingest data into SecOps.
:::

### Data Format Options

**Unstructured Logs**:
- Raw log text submission
- Requires `default_log_type` field
- Optional custom log types for classification
- Best for text-based logs or pre-formatted data

**UDM (Unified Data Model)**:
- Structured event submission using SecOps UDM schema
- Use `udm_type: logs` for security events
- Use `udm_type: entities` for entity context (V2 only)
- Requires events in UDM format

:::warning UDM Format Requirements
When using `send_events_as: udm`, ensure events conform to Google SecOps UDM schema. Invalid UDM events will be rejected.
:::

### Dynamic Field Overrides

Events can override target settings using reserved fields:
- `__logType`: Override default log type per event
- `__namespace`: Override namespace per event

These fields are removed before submission.

## Examples

### Basic V2 Unstructured

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Sending unstructured logs to SecOps V2 API using service account authentication from environment variable...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: secops-unstructured
        type: gcpsecops
        properties:
          region: us
          api_version: v2
          send_events_as: unstructured
          customer_id: "${SECOPS_CUSTOMER_ID}"
          default_log_type: FIREWALL_LOG
          authentication:
            method: secret
            service_account_credentials_secret: GCP_SECOPS_CREDENTIALS
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### V2 with UDM Events

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Forwarding UDM-formatted security events to SecOps using inline service account credentials...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: secops-udm
        type: gcpsecops
        properties:
          region: europe
          api_version: v2
          send_events_as: udm
          udm_type: logs
          customer_id: "${SECOPS_CUSTOMER_ID}"
          authentication:
            method: credentials
            service_account_credentials: |
              {
                "type": "service_account",
                "project_id": "your-project-id",
                "private_key_id": "key-id",
                "private_key": "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\n...",
                "client_email": "secops@your-project.iam.gserviceaccount.com"
              }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### V1 with API Key

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Using V1 API with API key authentication stored in environment variable...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: secops-v1
        type: gcpsecops
        properties:
          region: us
          api_version: v1
          send_events_as: unstructured
          default_log_type: CUSTOM_LOG
          authentication:
            method: apikeysecret
            api_key_secret: SECOPS_API_KEY
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### With Custom Log Types

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Defining multiple custom log types for different Windows event categories...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: secops-custom-types
        type: gcpsecops
        properties:
          region: us
          api_version: v2
          send_events_as: unstructured
          customer_id: "${SECOPS_CUSTOMER_ID}"
          default_log_type: WINDOWS_EVENT
          custom_log_types:
            - log_type: WINDOWS_SECURITY
              description: Windows security event logs
            - log_type: WINDOWS_SYSTEM
              description: Windows system event logs
            - log_type: WINDOWS_APPLICATION
              description: Windows application event logs
          authentication:
            method: secret
            service_account_credentials_secret: GCP_SECOPS_CREDENTIALS
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### With Namespace and Labels

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Organizing logs with namespace and custom labels for production environment tracking...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: secops-labeled
        type: gcpsecops
        properties:
          region: europe-west2
          api_version: v2
          send_events_as: unstructured
          customer_id: "${SECOPS_CUSTOMER_ID}"
          default_log_type: NETWORK_LOG
          namespace: production
          labels:
            - key: environment
              value: production
            - key: datacenter
              value: eu-west-1
            - key: application
              value: firewall
          authentication:
            method: secret
            service_account_credentials_secret: GCP_SECOPS_CREDENTIALS
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### With Log Text Field

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Extracting specific field as log text instead of submitting entire JSON structure...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: secops-text-field
        type: gcpsecops
        properties:
          region: us
          api_version: v2
          send_events_as: unstructured
          customer_id: "${SECOPS_CUSTOMER_ID}"
          default_log_type: SYSLOG
          log_text_field: message
          authentication:
            method: secret
            service_account_credentials_secret: GCP_SECOPS_CREDENTIALS
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### V2 UDM Entities

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Submitting entity context data using V2 UDM entities endpoint...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: secops-entities
        type: gcpsecops
        properties:
          region: us
          api_version: v2
          send_events_as: udm
          udm_type: entities
          customer_id: "${SECOPS_CUSTOMER_ID}"
          authentication:
            method: secret
            service_account_credentials_secret: GCP_SECOPS_CREDENTIALS
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Production Configuration

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Production-ready configuration with custom log types, labels, and performance tuning...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: secops-production
        type: gcpsecops
        properties:
          region: us
          api_version: v2
          send_events_as: unstructured
          customer_id: "${SECOPS_CUSTOMER_ID}"
          default_log_type: SECURITY_EVENT
          namespace: production
          log_text_field: raw_log
          batch_size: 1000
          timeout: 30
          custom_log_types:
            - log_type: AUTH_SUCCESS
              description: Successful authentication events
            - log_type: AUTH_FAILURE
              description: Failed authentication attempts
            - log_type: POLICY_VIOLATION
              description: Security policy violations
          labels:
            - key: tenant
              value: enterprise
            - key: compliance
              value: pci-dss
          authentication:
            method: secret
            service_account_credentials_secret: GCP_SECOPS_CREDENTIALS
          debug:
            status: false
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>
