docs/configuration/targets/gcp/google-cloud-storage.mdx, before:

# Google Cloud Storage

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Google Cloud</span><span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Long-Term Storage</span>

## Synopsis

Creates a target that writes log messages to Google Cloud Storage buckets with support for various file formats, authentication methods, and multipart uploads. The target handles large file uploads efficiently with configurable rotation based on size or event count.

## Schema
```yaml {1,3}
- name: <string>
  description: <string>
  type: gcs
  pipelines: <pipeline[]>
  status: <boolean>
  properties:
    key: <string>
    secret: <string>
    project_id: <string>
    region: <string>
    endpoint: <string>
    part_size: <numeric>
    bucket: <string>
    buckets:
      - bucket: <string>
        name: <string>
        format: <string>
        compression: <string>
        extension: <string>
        schema: <string>
    name: <string>
    format: <string>
    compression: <string>
    extension: <string>
    schema: <string>
    max_size: <numeric>
    batch_size: <numeric>
    timeout: <numeric>
    field_format: <string>
    interval: <string|numeric>
    cron: <string>
    debug:
      status: <boolean>
      dont_send_logs: <boolean>
```

## Configuration

The following fields are used to define the target:

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`name`|Y||Target name|
|`description`|N|-|Optional description|
|`type`|Y||Must be `gcs`|
|`pipelines`|N|-|Optional post-processor pipelines|
|`status`|N|`true`|Enable/disable the target|

### Google Cloud Storage Credentials

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`key`|N*|-|Google Cloud Storage HMAC access key ID for authentication|
|`secret`|N*|-|Google Cloud Storage HMAC secret access key for authentication|
|`project_id`|Y|-|Google Cloud project ID|
|`region`|N|`us-central1`|Google Cloud region (e.g., `us-central1`, `europe-west1`, `asia-east1`)|
|`endpoint`|N|`https://storage.googleapis.com`|Custom GCS-compatible endpoint URL|

\* = Conditionally required. HMAC credentials (`key` and `secret`) are required unless using service account authentication with Application Default Credentials.

### Connection

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`part_size`|N|`5`|Multipart upload part size in megabytes (minimum 5MB)|
|`timeout`|N|`30`|Connection timeout in seconds|
|`field_format`|N|-|Data normalization format. See applicable <Topic id="normalization-mapping">Normalization</Topic> section|

### Files

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`bucket`|N*|-|Default GCS bucket name (used if `buckets` not specified)|
|`buckets`|N*|-|Array of bucket configurations for file distribution|
|`buckets.bucket`|Y|-|GCS bucket name|
|`buckets.name`|Y|-|File name template|
|`buckets.format`|N|`"json"`|Output format: `json`, `multijson`, `avro`, `parquet`|
|`buckets.compression`|N|-|Compression algorithm. See [Compression](#compression) below|
|`buckets.extension`|N|Matches `format`|File extension override|
|`buckets.schema`|N*|-|Schema definition file path (required for Avro and Parquet formats)|
|`name`|N|`"vmetric.{{.Timestamp}}.{{.Extension}}"`|Default file name template when `buckets` not used|
|`format`|N|`"json"`|Default output format when `buckets` not used|
|`compression`|N|-|Default compression when `buckets` not used|
|`extension`|N|Matches `format`|Default file extension when `buckets` not used|
|`schema`|N|-|Default schema path when `buckets` not used|
|`max_size`|N|`0`|Maximum file size in bytes before rotation|
|`batch_size`|N|`100000`|Maximum number of messages per file|

\* = Either `bucket` or `buckets` must be specified. When using `buckets`, schema is conditionally required for Avro and Parquet formats.

:::note
When `max_size` is reached, the current file is uploaded to GCS and a new file is created. For unlimited file size, set the field to `0`.
:::

### Scheduler

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`interval`|N|realtime|Execution frequency. See <Topic id="interval">Interval</Topic> for details|
|`cron`|N|-|Cron expression for scheduled execution. See <Topic id="cron">Cron</Topic> for details|

### Debug Options

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`debug.status`|N|`false`|Enable debug logging|
|`debug.dont_send_logs`|N|`false`|Process logs but don't send to target (testing)|

## Details

### Authentication Methods

Supports HMAC credentials (access key and secret key) for S3-compatible API access. When deployed on Google Cloud infrastructure, can leverage service account authentication with Application Default Credentials without explicit credentials. HMAC keys can be created through the Google Cloud Console for programmatic access.

### Storage Classes

Google Cloud Storage supports multiple storage classes for cost optimization:

|Storage Class|Use Case|
|---|---|
|Standard|Frequently accessed data|
|Nearline|Data accessed less than once per month|
|Coldline|Data accessed less than once per quarter|
|Archive|Data accessed less than once per year|

### Available Regions

Google Cloud Storage is available in multiple regions worldwide:

|Region Code|Location|
|---|---|
|`us-central1`|Iowa, USA|
|`us-east1`|South Carolina, USA|
|`us-west1`|Oregon, USA|
|`europe-west1`|Belgium|
|`europe-west2`|London, UK|
|`europe-west3`|Frankfurt, Germany|
|`asia-east1`|Taiwan|
|`asia-northeast1`|Tokyo, Japan|
|`asia-southeast1`|Singapore|
|`australia-southeast1`|Sydney, Australia|

### File Formats

|Format|Description|
|---|---|
|`json`|Each log entry is written as a separate JSON line (JSONL format)|
|`multijson`|All log entries are written as a single JSON array|
|`avro`|Apache Avro format with schema|
|`parquet`|Apache Parquet columnar format with schema|

### Compression

Some formats support built-in compression to reduce storage costs and transfer times. When supported, compression is applied at the file/block level before upload.

|Format|Default|Compression Codecs|
|---|---|---|
|JSON|-|Not supported|
|MultiJSON|-|Not supported|
|Avro|`zstd`|`deflate`, `snappy`, `zstd`|
|Parquet|`zstd`|`gzip`, `snappy`, `zstd`, `brotli`, `lz4`|

### File Management

Files are rotated based on size (`max_size` parameter) or event count (`batch_size` parameter), whichever limit is reached first. Template variables in file names enable dynamic file naming for time-based partitioning.

### Templates

The following template variables can be used in file names:

|Variable|Description|Example|
|---|---|---|
|`{{.Year}}`|Current year|`2024`|
|`{{.Month}}`|Current month|`01`|
|`{{.Day}}`|Current day|`15`|
|`{{.Timestamp}}`|Current timestamp in nanoseconds|`1703688533123456789`|
|`{{.Format}}`|File format|`json`|
|`{{.Extension}}`|File extension|`json`|
|`{{.Compression}}`|Compression type|`zstd`|
|`{{.TargetName}}`|Target name|`my_logs`|
|`{{.TargetType}}`|Target type|`gcs`|
|`{{.Table}}`|Bucket name|`logs`|

### Multipart Upload

Large files automatically use multipart upload protocol with configurable part size (`part_size` parameter). Default 5MB part size balances upload efficiency and memory usage.

### Multiple Buckets

Single target can write to multiple GCS buckets with different configurations, enabling data distribution strategies (e.g., raw data to one bucket, processed data to another).

### Schema Requirements

Avro and Parquet formats require schema definition files. Schema files must be accessible at the path specified in the `schema` parameter during target initialization.

### Integration with Google Cloud

GCS integrates seamlessly with other Google Cloud services including BigQuery for analytics, Cloud Functions for serverless processing, and Cloud Logging for centralized logging.

## Examples

### Basic Configuration

The minimum configuration for a JSON GCS target:
```yaml
targets:
  - name: basic_gcs
    type: gcs
    properties:
      key: "GOOG1EXAMPLE1234567890ABCDEFGHIJ"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz1234567890ABCD"
      project_id: "my-project-123456"
      bucket: "datastream-logs"
```

### Service Account Authentication

Configuration using Application Default Credentials:
```yaml
targets:
  - name: gcs_service_account
    type: gcs
    properties:
      project_id: "my-project-123456"
      region: "us-central1"
      bucket: "datastream-logs"
```

### Multiple Buckets

Configuration for distributing data across multiple GCS buckets with different formats:
```yaml
targets:
  - name: multi_bucket_export
    type: gcs
    properties:
      key: "GOOG1EXAMPLE1234567890ABCDEFGHIJ"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz1234567890ABCD"
      project_id: "my-project-123456"
      region: "europe-west1"
      buckets:
        - bucket: "raw-data-archive"
          name: "raw-{{.Year}}-{{.Month}}-{{.Day}}.json"
          format: "multijson"
          compression: "gzip"
        - bucket: "analytics-data"
          name: "analytics-{{.Year}}/{{.Month}}/{{.Day}}/data_{{.Timestamp}}.parquet"
          format: "parquet"
          schema: "<schema definition>"
          compression: "snappy"
```

### Parquet Format

Configuration for daily partitioned Parquet files:
```yaml
targets:
  - name: parquet_analytics
    type: gcs
    properties:
      key: "GOOG1EXAMPLE1234567890ABCDEFGHIJ"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz1234567890ABCD"
      project_id: "my-project-123456"
      region: "us-west1"
      bucket: "analytics-lake"
      name: "events/year={{.Year}}/month={{.Month}}/day={{.Day}}/part-{{.Timestamp}}.parquet"
      format: "parquet"
      schema: "<schema definition>"
      compression: "snappy"
      max_size: 536870912
```

### High Reliability

Configuration with enhanced settings:
```yaml
targets:
  - name: reliable_gcs
    type: gcs
    pipelines:
      - checkpoint
    properties:
      key: "GOOG1EXAMPLE1234567890ABCDEFGHIJ"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz1234567890ABCD"
      project_id: "my-project-123456"
      region: "us-east1"
      bucket: "critical-logs"
      name: "logs-{{.Timestamp}}.json"
      format: "json"
      timeout: 60
      part_size: 10
```

### With Field Normalization

Using field normalization for standard format:
```yaml
targets:
  - name: normalized_gcs
    type: gcs
    properties:
      key: "GOOG1EXAMPLE1234567890ABCDEFGHIJ"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz1234567890ABCD"
      project_id: "my-project-123456"
      region: "europe-west2"
      bucket: "normalized-logs"
      name: "logs-{{.Timestamp}}.json"
      format: "json"
      field_format: "cim"
```

### BigQuery Integration

Configuration optimized for BigQuery data lake:
```yaml
targets:
  - name: bigquery_ready
    type: gcs
    properties:
      key: "GOOG1EXAMPLE1234567890ABCDEFGHIJ"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz1234567890ABCD"
      project_id: "my-project-123456"
      region: "us-central1"
      bucket: "bigquery-staging"
      name: "bq-import/{{.Year}}/{{.Month}}/{{.Day}}/data-{{.Timestamp}}.json"
      format: "json"
      compression: "gzip"
      max_size: 1073741824
```

### Debug Configuration

Configuration with debugging enabled:
```yaml
targets:
  - name: debug_gcs
    type: gcs
    properties:
      key: "GOOG1EXAMPLE1234567890ABCDEFGHIJ"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz1234567890ABCD"
      project_id: "my-project-123456"
      region: "asia-east1"
      bucket: "test-logs"
      name: "test-{{.Timestamp}}.json"
      format: "json"
      debug:
        status: true
        dont_send_logs: true
```

Commit message:

Enhance documentation for various cloud storage and analytics targets by adding detailed descriptions and clarifying configuration options for Databricks, Snowflake, Backblaze B2, Cloudflare R2, Wasabi, Google Cloud Storage, and IBM Cloud Object Storage.

docs/configuration/targets/gcp/google-cloud-storage.mdx, after:

# Google Cloud Storage

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Google Cloud</span><span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Long-Term Storage</span>

## Synopsis

Creates a target that writes log messages to Google Cloud Storage buckets with support for various file formats, authentication methods, and multipart uploads. The target handles large file uploads efficiently with configurable rotation based on size or event count.

## Schema
```yaml {1,3}
- name: <string>
  description: <string>
  type: gcs
  pipelines: <pipeline[]>
  status: <boolean>
  properties:
    key: <string>
    secret: <string>
    project_id: <string>
    region: <string>
    endpoint: <string>
    part_size: <numeric>
    bucket: <string>
    buckets:
      - bucket: <string>
        name: <string>
        format: <string>
        compression: <string>
        extension: <string>
        schema: <string>
    name: <string>
    format: <string>
    compression: <string>
    extension: <string>
    schema: <string>
    max_size: <numeric>
    batch_size: <numeric>
    timeout: <numeric>
    field_format: <string>
    interval: <string|numeric>
    cron: <string>
    debug:
      status: <boolean>
      dont_send_logs: <boolean>
```

## Configuration

The following fields are used to define the target:

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`name`|Y||Target name|
|`description`|N|-|Optional description|
|`type`|Y||Must be `gcs`|
|`pipelines`|N|-|Optional post-processor pipelines|
|`status`|N|`true`|Enable/disable the target|

### Google Cloud Storage Credentials

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`key`|N*|-|Google Cloud Storage HMAC access key ID for authentication|
|`secret`|N*|-|Google Cloud Storage HMAC secret access key for authentication|
|`project_id`|Y|-|Google Cloud project ID|
|`region`|N|`us-central1`|Google Cloud region (e.g., `us-central1`, `europe-west1`, `asia-east1`)|
|`endpoint`|N|`https://storage.googleapis.com`|Custom GCS-compatible endpoint URL|

\* = Conditionally required. HMAC credentials (`key` and `secret`) are required unless using service account authentication with Application Default Credentials.

### Connection

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`part_size`|N|`5`|Multipart upload part size in megabytes (minimum 5MB)|
|`timeout`|N|`30`|Connection timeout in seconds|
|`field_format`|N|-|Data normalization format. See applicable <Topic id="normalization-mapping">Normalization</Topic> section|

### Files

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`bucket`|N*|-|Default GCS bucket name (used if `buckets` not specified)|
|`buckets`|N*|-|Array of bucket configurations for file distribution|
|`buckets.bucket`|Y|-|GCS bucket name|
|`buckets.name`|Y|-|File name template|
|`buckets.format`|N|`"json"`|Output format: `json`, `multijson`, `avro`, `parquet`|
|`buckets.compression`|N|-|Compression algorithm. See [Compression](#compression) below|
|`buckets.extension`|N|Matches `format`|File extension override|
|`buckets.schema`|N*|-|Schema definition file path (required for Avro and Parquet formats)|
|`name`|N|`"vmetric.{{.Timestamp}}.{{.Extension}}"`|Default file name template when `buckets` not used|
|`format`|N|`"json"`|Default output format when `buckets` not used|
|`compression`|N|-|Default compression when `buckets` not used|
|`extension`|N|Matches `format`|Default file extension when `buckets` not used|
|`schema`|N|-|Default schema path when `buckets` not used|
|`max_size`|N|`0`|Maximum file size in bytes before rotation|
|`batch_size`|N|`100000`|Maximum number of messages per file|

\* = Either `bucket` or `buckets` must be specified. When using `buckets`, schema is conditionally required for Avro and Parquet formats.

:::note
When `max_size` is reached, the current file is uploaded to GCS and a new file is created. For unlimited file size, set the field to `0`.
:::

### Scheduler

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`interval`|N|realtime|Execution frequency. See <Topic id="interval">Interval</Topic> for details|
|`cron`|N|-|Cron expression for scheduled execution. See <Topic id="cron">Cron</Topic> for details|

### Debug Options

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`debug.status`|N|`false`|Enable debug logging|
|`debug.dont_send_logs`|N|`false`|Process logs but don't send to target (testing)|

## Details

The Google Cloud Storage target provides enterprise-grade cloud storage integration with comprehensive file format support. GCS offers high durability (99.999999999%), strong consistency for read-after-write operations, and integration with Google Cloud's security and analytics ecosystem.

### Authentication Methods

Supports HMAC credentials (access key and secret key) for S3-compatible API access. When deployed on Google Cloud infrastructure, can leverage service account authentication with Application Default Credentials without explicit credentials. HMAC keys can be created through the Google Cloud Console for programmatic access.

### Storage Classes

Google Cloud Storage supports multiple storage classes for cost optimization:

|Storage Class|Use Case|
|---|---|
|Standard|Frequently accessed data|
|Nearline|Data accessed less than once per month|
|Coldline|Data accessed less than once per quarter|
|Archive|Data accessed less than once per year|

### Available Regions

Google Cloud Storage is available in multiple regions worldwide:

|Region Code|Location|
|---|---|
|`us-central1`|Iowa, USA|
|`us-east1`|South Carolina, USA|
|`us-west1`|Oregon, USA|
|`europe-west1`|Belgium|
|`europe-west2`|London, UK|
|`europe-west3`|Frankfurt, Germany|
|`asia-east1`|Taiwan|
|`asia-northeast1`|Tokyo, Japan|
|`asia-southeast1`|Singapore|
|`australia-southeast1`|Sydney, Australia|

### File Formats

|Format|Description|
|---|---|
|`json`|Each log entry is written as a separate JSON line (JSONL format)|
|`multijson`|All log entries are written as a single JSON array|
|`avro`|Apache Avro format with schema|
|`parquet`|Apache Parquet columnar format with schema|

### Compression

Some formats support built-in compression to reduce storage costs and transfer times. When supported, compression is applied at the file/block level before upload.

|Format|Default|Compression Codecs|
|---|---|---|
|JSON|-|Not supported|
|MultiJSON|-|Not supported|
|Avro|`zstd`|`deflate`, `snappy`, `zstd`|
|Parquet|`zstd`|`gzip`, `snappy`, `zstd`, `brotli`, `lz4`|

### File Management

Files are rotated based on size (`max_size` parameter) or event count (`batch_size` parameter), whichever limit is reached first. Template variables in file names enable dynamic file naming for time-based partitioning.

### Templates

The following template variables can be used in file names:

|Variable|Description|Example|
|---|---|---|
|`{{.Year}}`|Current year|`2024`|
|`{{.Month}}`|Current month|`01`|
|`{{.Day}}`|Current day|`15`|
|`{{.Timestamp}}`|Current timestamp in nanoseconds|`1703688533123456789`|
|`{{.Format}}`|File format|`json`|
|`{{.Extension}}`|File extension|`json`|
|`{{.Compression}}`|Compression type|`zstd`|
|`{{.TargetName}}`|Target name|`my_logs`|
|`{{.TargetType}}`|Target type|`gcs`|
|`{{.Table}}`|Bucket name|`logs`|

### Multipart Upload

Large files automatically use multipart upload protocol with configurable part size (`part_size` parameter). Default 5MB part size balances upload efficiency and memory usage.

### Multiple Buckets

Single target can write to multiple GCS buckets with different configurations, enabling data distribution strategies (e.g., raw data to one bucket, processed data to another).

### Schema Requirements

Avro and Parquet formats require schema definition files. Schema files must be accessible at the path specified in the `schema` parameter during target initialization.

### Integration with Google Cloud

GCS integrates seamlessly with other Google Cloud services including BigQuery for analytics, Cloud Functions for serverless processing, and Cloud Logging for centralized logging.

## Examples

### Basic Configuration

The minimum configuration for a JSON GCS target:
```yaml
targets:
  - name: basic_gcs
    type: gcs
    properties:
      key: "GOOG1EXAMPLE1234567890ABCDEFGHIJ"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz1234567890ABCD"
      project_id: "my-project-123456"
      bucket: "datastream-logs"
```

### Service Account Authentication

Configuration using Application Default Credentials:
```yaml
targets:
  - name: gcs_service_account
    type: gcs
    properties:
      project_id: "my-project-123456"
      region: "us-central1"
      bucket: "datastream-logs"
```

### Multiple Buckets

Configuration for distributing data across multiple GCS buckets with different formats:
```yaml
targets:
  - name: multi_bucket_export
    type: gcs
    properties:
      key: "GOOG1EXAMPLE1234567890ABCDEFGHIJ"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz1234567890ABCD"
      project_id: "my-project-123456"
      region: "europe-west1"
      buckets:
        - bucket: "raw-data-archive"
          name: "raw-{{.Year}}-{{.Month}}-{{.Day}}.json"
          format: "multijson"
          compression: "gzip"
        - bucket: "analytics-data"
          name: "analytics-{{.Year}}/{{.Month}}/{{.Day}}/data_{{.Timestamp}}.parquet"
          format: "parquet"
          schema: "<schema definition>"
          compression: "snappy"
```

### Parquet Format

Configuration for daily partitioned Parquet files:
```yaml
targets:
  - name: parquet_analytics
    type: gcs
    properties:
      key: "GOOG1EXAMPLE1234567890ABCDEFGHIJ"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz1234567890ABCD"
      project_id: "my-project-123456"
      region: "us-west1"
      bucket: "analytics-lake"
      name: "events/year={{.Year}}/month={{.Month}}/day={{.Day}}/part-{{.Timestamp}}.parquet"
      format: "parquet"
      schema: "<schema definition>"
      compression: "snappy"
      max_size: 536870912
```

### High Reliability

Configuration with enhanced settings:
```yaml
targets:
  - name: reliable_gcs
    type: gcs
    pipelines:
      - checkpoint
    properties:
      key: "GOOG1EXAMPLE1234567890ABCDEFGHIJ"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz1234567890ABCD"
      project_id: "my-project-123456"
      region: "us-east1"
      bucket: "critical-logs"
      name: "logs-{{.Timestamp}}.json"
      format: "json"
      timeout: 60
      part_size: 10
```

### With Field Normalization

Using field normalization for standard format:
```yaml
targets:
  - name: normalized_gcs
    type: gcs
    properties:
      key: "GOOG1EXAMPLE1234567890ABCDEFGHIJ"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz1234567890ABCD"
      project_id: "my-project-123456"
      region: "europe-west2"
      bucket: "normalized-logs"
      name: "logs-{{.Timestamp}}.json"
      format: "json"
      field_format: "cim"
```

### BigQuery Integration

Configuration optimized for BigQuery data lake:
```yaml
targets:
  - name: bigquery_ready
    type: gcs
    properties:
      key: "GOOG1EXAMPLE1234567890ABCDEFGHIJ"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz1234567890ABCD"
      project_id: "my-project-123456"
      region: "us-central1"
      bucket: "bigquery-staging"
      name: "bq-import/{{.Year}}/{{.Month}}/{{.Day}}/data-{{.Timestamp}}.json"
      format: "json"
      compression: "gzip"
      max_size: 1073741824
```

### Debug Configuration

Configuration with debugging enabled:
```yaml
targets:
  - name: debug_gcs
    type: gcs
    properties:
      key: "GOOG1EXAMPLE1234567890ABCDEFGHIJ"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz1234567890ABCD"
      project_id: "my-project-123456"
      region: "asia-east1"
      bucket: "test-logs"
      name: "test-{{.Timestamp}}.json"
      format: "json"
      debug:
        status: true
        dont_send_logs: true
```
