docs/configuration/targets/microsoft-sentinel.mdx, before:

# Microsoft Sentinel

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Microsoft Azure</span><span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">SIEM</span>

## Synopsis

Creates a target that ingests log messages into Microsoft Sentinel workspace tables using Data Collection Rules (DCRs). Supports automatic table selection, field normalization, and filtering options.

:::tip
For more details, refer to our Microsoft Sentinel Overview and Microsoft Sentinel Integration chapters.
:::
## Schema

```yaml {1,3}
- name: <string>
  description: <string>
  type: sentinel
  pipelines: <pipeline[]>
  status: <boolean>
  properties:
    tenant_id: <string>
    client_id: <string>
    client_secret: <string>
    rule_id: <string>
    endpoint: <string>
    streams:
      - name: <string>
        rule_id: <string>
    stream: <string[]>
    buffer_size: <numeric>
    batch_size: <numeric>
    keep_phantom_fields: <boolean>
    drop_unknown_stream_events: <boolean>
    cache:
      timeout: <numeric>
    field_format: <string>
    debug:
      status: <boolean>
      dont_send_logs: <boolean>
```

## Configuration

The following fields are used to define the target:

### Core Settings

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`name`|Y||Target name|
|`description`|N|-|Optional description|
|`type`|Y||Must be `sentinel`|
|`pipelines`|N|-|Optional post-processor pipelines|
|`status`|N|`true`|Enable/disable the target|

### Authentication

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`tenant_id`|N*|-|Azure tenant ID (required unless using managed identity)|
|`client_id`|N*|-|Azure client ID (required unless using managed identity)|
|`client_secret`|N*|-|Client secret (required unless using managed identity)|

\* = Conditionally required (see authentication methods above)

### Stream Configuration

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`endpoint`|Y||DCR ingestion endpoint or Resource ID|
|`rule_id`|N||Default Data Collection Rule (DCR) ID|
|`streams`|N|-|Detailed stream configurations|
|`stream`|N|-|Legacy string array of stream names|
|`buffer_size`|N|`1048576`|Buffer size in bytes (1MB)|
|`batch_size`|N|`1000`|Maximum number of messages per batch|
|`keep_phantom_fields`|N|`false`|Keep fields not defined in DCR schema|
|`drop_unknown_stream_events`|N|`true`|Silently drop events for undefined streams|
|`cache.timeout`|N|`300`|Stream cache timeout in seconds|
|`field_format`|N|-|Data normalization format. See applicable <Topic id="normalization-mapping">Normalization</Topic> section|

### Debug Options

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`debug.status`|N|`false`|Enable debug logging|
|`debug.dont_send_logs`|N|`false`|Process logs but don't send to Sentinel (testing)|

## Automatic Table Selection

When `streams` is not specified, tables are automatically selected based on input type:

|Input Type|Target Table|
|:-:|---|
|Windows Event Log|`Custom-WindowsEvent`|
|Windows Application Log|`Custom-WindowsEvent`|
|Windows System Log|`Custom-WindowsEvent`|
|Windows Security Log|`Custom-SecurityEvent`|
|Syslog|`Custom-Syslog`|
|Linux Audit Report|`Custom-CommonSecurityLog`|
|Windows Audit Report|`Custom-CommonSecurityLog`|

### Available Tables

**Standard Tables** (Prefix: `Custom-`)
> `WindowsEvent` `SecurityEvent` `CommonSecurityLog` `Syslog`

**ASim Tables** (Prefix: `Custom-` or `Microsoft-`)
> `ASimAuditEventLogs` `ASimAuthenticationEventLogs` `ASimDhcpEventLogs` `ASimDnsActivityLogs` `ASimFileEventLogs` `ASimNetworkSessionLogs` `ASimProcessEventLogs` `ASimRegistryEventLogs` `ASimUserManagementActivityLogs` `ASimWebSessionLogs`

## Details

The Microsoft Sentinel target enables direct ingestion into Microsoft Sentinel tables with flexible configuration options. It supports using the `SystemS3` field to route messages to specific stream tables, using the format `Custom-TableName`.

The target automatically detects table schemas and can clean messages to remove phantom fields that aren't defined in the schema when `keep_phantom_fields` is set to `false`. 

:::warning
Disabling `keep_phantom_fields` may result in data loss for undefined fields.
:::

Data is buffered until either the batch size limit is reached or an explicit flush is triggered. Each stream type has different limits based on the Log Analytics ingestion API.

:::warning
Enabling `drop_unknown_stream_events` silently discards unmatched events.
:::

### Preconfigured Schemas

The target includes built-in schema definitions for standard tables like:
- Syslog
- Common Security Log
- Security Event
- Windows Event
- ASim tables (various types)

These predefined schemas ensure proper column mapping and validation when sending data to Sentinel.

:::warning
Large buffer sizes or batch sizes increase memory usage.
:::

## Autodiscovery

**Director** provides an autodiscovery feature that automatically configures _Data Collection Rules_ and their associated streams.

The required permissions are:

- For **Data Collection Rules**

  |Role|Scope|
  |---|---|
  |`Monitoring Metrics Publisher`|Each DCR with name starting with `vmetric`|

- For **Resource Groups**

  |Role|Scope|
  |---|---|
  |`Monitoring Reader`|Resource Group containing your DCE|

:::warning
Always assign the `Monitoring Reader` role at the **Resource Group** level, not at the **Subscription** level.
:::

The feature uses _Resource IDs_ to discover DCRs and their configurations. It then automatically detects table schemas and validates fields, and prevents phantom fields through schema validation.

Autodiscovery adapts to environment changes automatically.

## Examples

### Basic

Configuration using Resource ID-based autodiscovery:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: auto_sentinel
    type: sentinel
    properties:
      tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_secret: "your-client-secret"
      endpoint: "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/myResourceGroup/providers/Microsoft.Insights/dataCollectionEndpoints/myDCE"
```

### Managed Identity

Using _Managed Identity Authentication_ instead of _App Registration_:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: managed_identity_sentinel
    type: sentinel
    properties:
      endpoint: "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/myResourceGroup/providers/Microsoft.Insights/dataCollectionEndpoints/myDCE"
```

### Filtered

Using specific stream filtering and custom cache timeout:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: filtered_autodiscovery
    type: sentinel
    properties:
      tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_secret: "your-client-secret"
      endpoint: "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/myResourceGroup/providers/Microsoft.Insights/dataCollectionEndpoints/myDCE"
      streams:
        - name: "Custom-WindowsEvent"
        - name: "Custom-SecurityEvent"
      cache:
        timeout: 300  # 5 minutes
      keep_phantom_fields: false
      drop_unknown_stream_events: true
```

### High-Volume

Optimization for high-volume ingestion:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: optimized_sentinel
    type: sentinel
    pipelines:
      - normalization
    properties:
      tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_secret: "your-client-secret"
      endpoint: "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/myResourceGroup/providers/Microsoft.Insights/dataCollectionEndpoints/myDCE"
      buffer_size: 5242880  # 5MB
      batch_size: 5000
      field_format: "asim"
      streams:
        - name: "Custom-ASimProcessEventLogs"
        - name: "Custom-ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
```

### With Debugging

Configuration with debug options:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: debug_sentinel
    type: sentinel
    properties:
      tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_secret: "your-client-secret"
      endpoint: "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/myResourceGroup/providers/Microsoft.Insights/dataCollectionEndpoints/myDCE"
      debug:
        status: true
        dont_send_logs: true  # Test mode that doesn't actually upload
```

Commit message:

Update handling-failures documentation and normalize log formats for Microsoft Sentinel and Splunk HEC

docs/configuration/targets/microsoft-sentinel.mdx, after:

# Microsoft Sentinel

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Microsoft Azure</span><span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">SIEM</span>

## Synopsis

Creates a target that ingests log messages into Microsoft Sentinel workspace tables using Data Collection Rules (DCRs). Supports automatic table selection, field normalization, and filtering options.

:::tip
For more details, refer to our Microsoft Sentinel Overview and Microsoft Sentinel Integration chapters.
:::

## Schema

```yaml {1,3}
- name: <string>
  description: <string>
  type: sentinel
  pipelines: <pipeline[]>
  status: <boolean>
  properties:
    tenant_id: <string>
    client_id: <string>
    client_secret: <string>
    rule_id: <string>
    endpoint: <string>
    streams:
      - name: <string>
        rule_id: <string>
    stream: <string[]>
    buffer_size: <numeric>
    batch_size: <numeric>
    keep_phantom_fields: <boolean>
    drop_unknown_stream_events: <boolean>
    cache:
      timeout: <numeric>
    field_format: <string>
    debug:
      status: <boolean>
      dont_send_logs: <boolean>
```

## Configuration

The following fields are used to define the target:

### Core Settings

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`name`|Y||Target name|
|`description`|N|-|Optional description|
|`type`|Y||Must be `sentinel`|
|`pipelines`|N|-|Optional post-processor pipelines|
|`status`|N|`true`|Enable/disable the target|

### Authentication

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`tenant_id`|N*|-|Azure tenant ID (required unless using managed identity)|
|`client_id`|N*|-|Azure client ID (required unless using managed identity)|
|`client_secret`|N*|-|Client secret (required unless using managed identity)|

\* = Conditionally required (see authentication methods above)

### Stream Configuration

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`endpoint`|Y||DCR ingestion endpoint or Resource ID|
|`rule_id`|N||Default Data Collection Rule (DCR) ID|
|`streams`|N|-|Detailed stream configurations|
|`stream`|N|-|Legacy string array of stream names|
|`buffer_size`|N|`1048576`|Buffer size in bytes (1MB)|
|`batch_size`|N|`1000`|Maximum number of messages per batch|
|`keep_phantom_fields`|N|`false`|Keep fields not defined in DCR schema|
|`drop_unknown_stream_events`|N|`true`|Silently drop events for undefined streams|
|`cache.timeout`|N|`300`|Stream cache timeout in seconds|
|`field_format`|N|-|Data normalization format. See applicable <Topic id="normalization-mapping">Normalization</Topic> section|

### Debug Options

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`debug.status`|N|`false`|Enable debug logging|
|`debug.dont_send_logs`|N|`false`|Process logs but don't send to Sentinel (testing)|

## Automatic Table Selection

When `streams` is not specified, tables are automatically selected based on input type:

|Input Type|Target Table|
|:-:|---|
|Windows Event Log|`Custom-WindowsEvent`|
|Windows Application Log|`Custom-WindowsEvent`|
|Windows System Log|`Custom-WindowsEvent`|
|Windows Security Log|`Custom-SecurityEvent`|
|Syslog|`Custom-Syslog`|
|Linux Audit Report|`Custom-CommonSecurityLog`|
|Windows Audit Report|`Custom-CommonSecurityLog`|

### Available Tables

**Standard Tables** (Prefix: `Custom-`)
> `WindowsEvent` `SecurityEvent` `CommonSecurityLog` `Syslog`

**ASim Tables** (Prefix: `Custom-` or `Microsoft-`)
> `ASimAuditEventLogs` `ASimAuthenticationEventLogs` `ASimDhcpEventLogs` `ASimDnsActivityLogs` `ASimFileEventLogs` `ASimNetworkSessionLogs` `ASimProcessEventLogs` `ASimRegistryEventLogs` `ASimUserManagementActivityLogs` `ASimWebSessionLogs`

## Details

The Microsoft Sentinel target enables direct ingestion into Microsoft Sentinel tables with flexible configuration options. It supports using the `SystemS3` field to route messages to specific stream tables, using the format `Custom-TableName`.

The target automatically detects table schemas and can clean messages to remove phantom fields that aren't defined in the schema when `keep_phantom_fields` is set to `false`. 

:::warning
Disabling `keep_phantom_fields` may result in data loss for undefined fields.
:::

Data is buffered until either the batch size limit is reached or an explicit flush is triggered. Each stream type has different limits based on the Log Analytics ingestion API.

:::warning
Enabling `drop_unknown_stream_events` silently discards unmatched events.
:::

### Field Normalization

The `field_format` property allows normalizing log data to standard formats:

- `csl` - Common Security Log
- `asim` - Advanced Security Information Model

Field normalization is applied before the logs are sent to Sentinel, ensuring consistent indexing and search capabilities.


### Preconfigured Schemas

The target includes built-in schema definitions for standard tables like:
- Syslog
- Common Security Log
- Security Event
- Windows Event
- ASim tables (various types)

These predefined schemas ensure proper column mapping and validation when sending data to Sentinel.

:::warning
Large buffer sizes or batch sizes increase memory usage.
:::

## Autodiscovery

**Director** provides an autodiscovery feature that automatically configures _Data Collection Rules_ and their associated streams.

The required permissions are:

- For **Data Collection Rules**

  |Role|Scope|
  |---|---|
  |`Monitoring Metrics Publisher`|Each DCR with name starting with `vmetric`|

- For **Resource Groups**

  |Role|Scope|
  |---|---|
  |`Monitoring Reader`|Resource Group containing your DCE|

:::warning
Always assign the `Monitoring Reader` role at the **Resource Group** level, not at the **Subscription** level.
:::

The feature uses _Resource IDs_ to discover DCRs and their configurations. It then automatically detects table schemas and validates fields, and prevents phantom fields through schema validation.

Autodiscovery adapts to environment changes automatically.

## Examples

### Basic

Configuration using Resource ID-based autodiscovery:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: auto_sentinel
    type: sentinel
    properties:
      tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_secret: "your-client-secret"
      endpoint: "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/myResourceGroup/providers/Microsoft.Insights/dataCollectionEndpoints/myDCE"
```

### Managed Identity

Using _Managed Identity Authentication_ instead of _App Registration_:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: managed_identity_sentinel
    type: sentinel
    properties:
      endpoint: "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/myResourceGroup/providers/Microsoft.Insights/dataCollectionEndpoints/myDCE"
```

### Filtered

Using specific stream filtering and custom cache timeout:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: filtered_autodiscovery
    type: sentinel
    properties:
      tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_secret: "your-client-secret"
      endpoint: "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/myResourceGroup/providers/Microsoft.Insights/dataCollectionEndpoints/myDCE"
      streams:
        - name: "Custom-WindowsEvent"
        - name: "Custom-SecurityEvent"
      cache:
        timeout: 300  # 5 minutes
      keep_phantom_fields: false
      drop_unknown_stream_events: true
```

### High-Volume

Optimization for high-volume ingestion:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: optimized_sentinel
    type: sentinel
    pipelines:
      - normalization
    properties:
      tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_secret: "your-client-secret"
      endpoint: "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/myResourceGroup/providers/Microsoft.Insights/dataCollectionEndpoints/myDCE"
      buffer_size: 5242880  # 5MB
      batch_size: 5000
      field_format: "asim"
      streams:
        - name: "Custom-ASimProcessEventLogs"
        - name: "Custom-ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
```

### With Debugging

Configuration with debug options:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: debug_sentinel
    type: sentinel
    properties:
      tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_secret: "your-client-secret"
      endpoint: "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/myResourceGroup/providers/Microsoft.Insights/dataCollectionEndpoints/myDCE"
      debug:
        status: true
        dont_send_logs: true  # Test mode that doesn't actually upload
```
