docs/admin/devices/http.mdx, before:

# HTTP

## Synopsis

```yaml
devices:
  - id: <numeric>
    name: <ip-numeric>
    description: <text>
    type: http
    status: <logical>
    properties:
      address: <string>
      port: <numeric>
      tls: <logical>
      cert_name: <string>
      key_name: <string>
      url: <string>
      content_type: <string>
      response:
        code: <enum-numeric>
        body: <string>
        content_type: <string>
      flush_interval: <numeric>
      queue:
        interval: <numeric>
      batch_size: <numeric>
```

## Description

Represents the listener that delivers data from HTTP-based web data streams. Expects POST requests containing a JSON body, and the body to be an object or array of objects.

## Parameters

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`id`|Y|N/A|Device id|
|`name`|Y|N/A|The IP to use to listen to the stream|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note|
|`type`|Y|N/A|Device type. Should be `http`|
|`status`|N|`false`|Enable device|

### `properties:`

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`address`|N|`"0.0.0.0"`|Listening address|
|`port`|Y|N/A|Listening port|
|`tls`|N|`false`|Enables TLS connection|
|`cert_name`|N|`"cert.pem"`|TLS certificate file path|
|`key_name`|N|`"key.pem"`|TLS key file path|
|`url`|N|`"/"`|Listening path|
|`content_type`|N|`"application/json"`|Request content body MIME type|
|`flush_interval`|N|`1`|Ingester flush time interval in sec|
|`batch_size`|N|`1000`|Ingester batch size|

### `response:`

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`code`|N|`200`|Response HTTP status code|
|`body`|N|`"{\"message\":\"success\"}"`|Response content body|
|`content_type`|N|`"application/json"`|Response content body MIME type|

### `queue:`

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`interval`|N|`1`|Ingester de-queue time interval in sec|

## Examples

### Basic Listening

```yaml
devices:
  - id: 1
    name: 127.0.0.1
    type: http
    status: true
    properties:
      address: "192.168.1.1"
      port: 8080
```

{/* TODO: Complete */}

Commit message:

Entered most of the field settings in devices

docs/admin/devices/http.mdx, after:

# HTTP

## Synopsis

```yaml {5}
devices:
  - id: <numeric>
    name: <ip-numeric>
    description: <text>
    type: http
    status: <logical>
    properties:
      address: <string>
      port: <numeric>
      tls: <logical>
      cert_name: <string>
      key_name: <string>
      url: <string>
      content_type: <string>
      response:
        code: <enum-numeric>
        body: <string>
        content_type: <string>
      flush_interval: <numeric>
      queue:
        interval: <numeric>
      batch_size: <numeric>
```

## Description

Represents the listener that delivers data from HTTP-based web data streams. Expects POST requests containing a JSON body, and the body to be an object or array of objects.

Multiple HTTP devices can be assigned to a single addres and port since the device will resolve requests based on the URL configuration. All devices must, however, use the same TLS configuration, and be enabled or disabled as such.

## Parameters

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`id`|Y|N/A|Device id|
|`name`|Y|N/A|The IP to use to listen to the stream|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note|
|`type`|Y|N/A|Device type. Should be `http`|
|`status`|N|`false`|Enable device|

### `properties:`

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`address`|N|`"0.0.0.0"`|Listening address|
|`port`|Y|N/A|Listening port|
|`tls`|N|`false`|Enables TLS connection|
|`cert_name`|N|`"cert.pem"`|TLS certificate file path|
|`key_name`|N|`"key.pem"`|TLS key file path|
|`url`|N|`"/"`|Listening path|
|`content_type`|N|`"application/json"`|Request content body MIME type|
|`flush_interval`|N|`1`|Ingester flush time interval in sec|
|`batch_size`|N|`1000`|Ingester batch size|

### `response:`

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`code`|N|`200`|Response HTTP status code|
|`body`|N|`"{\"message\":\"success\"}"`|Response content body|
|`content_type`|N|`"application/json"`|Response content body MIME type|

### `queue:`

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`interval`|N|`1`|Ingester de-queue time interval in sec|

## Examples

### Basic Listening

```yaml
devices:
  - id: 1
    name: 127.0.0.1
    type: http
    status: true
    properties:
      address: "192.168.1.1"
      port: 8080
```

{/* TODO: Complete */}
