docs/appendix/field-formats/ocsf.mdx, before:

---
pagination_prev: null
pagination_next: null
---

# OCSF

The Open Cybersecurity Schema Framework (OCSF) is an open standard for security event data that provides a vendor-agnostic way to normalize security logs across different sources. OCSF provides standardization for security-focused log data, enabling seamless integration with AWS Security Lake and other security analytics platforms.

OCSF organizes security events into classes, each representing a specific type of security activity. When using `field_format: "ocsf"`, VirtualMetric automatically transforms your security data into OCSF-compliant format based on the event type.

## Available OCSF Schema Classes

### System Activity (1000-1999)

- `OCSF1001` - File System Activity
- `OCSF1002` - Kernel Extension Activity
- `OCSF1003` - Kernel Activity
- `OCSF1004` - Memory Activity
- `OCSF1005` - Module Activity
- `OCSF1006` - Scheduled Job Activity
- `OCSF1007` - Process Activity
- `OCSF1008` - Event Log Activity
- `OCSF1009` - Script Activity
- `OCSF1010` - Peripheral Activity

### Findings (2000-2999)

- ~~`OCSF2001` - Security Finding~~ *(deprecated in v1.1 - use specific Finding classes below)*
- `OCSF2002` - Vulnerability Finding
- `OCSF2003` - Compliance Finding
- `OCSF2004` - Detection Finding
- `OCSF2005` - Incident Finding
- `OCSF2006` - Data Security Finding *(v1.2 - DLP, data classification)*
- `OCSF2007` - Application Security Posture Finding
- `OCSF2008` - IAM Analysis Finding

### Identity & Access Management (3000-3999)

- `OCSF3001` - Account Change
- `OCSF3002` - Authentication
- `OCSF3003` - Authorize Session
- `OCSF3004` - Entity Management
- `OCSF3005` - User Access Management
- `OCSF3006` - Group Management

### Network Activity (4000-4999)

- `OCSF4001` - Network Activity
- `OCSF4002` - HTTP Activity
- `OCSF4003` - DNS Activity
- `OCSF4004` - DHCP Activity
- `OCSF4005` - RDP Activity
- `OCSF4006` - SMB Activity
- `OCSF4007` - SSH Activity
- `OCSF4008` - FTP Activity
- `OCSF4009` - Email Activity
- `OCSF4010` - Network File Activity
- `OCSF4011` - Email File Activity
- `OCSF4012` - Email URL Activity
- `OCSF4013` - NTP Activity
- `OCSF4014` - Tunnel Activity

### Discovery & Inventory (5000-5999)

- `OCSF5001` - Device Inventory Info
- `OCSF5002` - Device Config State
- `OCSF5003` - User Inventory Info
- `OCSF5004` - Operating System Patch State
- `OCSF5019` - Device Config State Change
- `OCSF5020` - Software Inventory Info *(v1.3)*
- `OCSF5021` - OSINT Inventory Info *(v1.3 - threat intelligence)*
- `OCSF5023` - Cloud Resources Inventory Info
- `OCSF5040` - Live Evidence Info

### Application Activity (6000-6999)

- `OCSF6001` - Web Resources Activity
- `OCSF6002` - Application Lifecycle
- `OCSF6003` - API Activity
- `OCSF6004` - Web Resource Access Activity
- `OCSF6005` - Datastore Activity
- `OCSF6006` - File Hosting Activity
- `OCSF6007` - Scan Activity
- `OCSF6008` - Application Error

### Remediation (7000-7999) *(v1.3)*

- `OCSF7001` - Remediation Activity
- `OCSF7002` - File Remediation Activity
- `OCSF7003` - Process Remediation Activity
- `OCSF7004` - Network Remediation Activity

## Usage

To enable OCSF normalization, specify the field format in your target configuration:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: my_target
    type: awssecuritylake
    properties:
      field_format: "ocsf"
```

When using the VirtualMetric AWS Security Lake Pack, OCSF normalization is handled automatically through the `aws_lake` pipeline. The pack intelligently routes events to the appropriate OCSF schema class based on the source data type and vendor.

## Integration with AWS Security Lake

OCSF is the native schema format for AWS Security Lake. When sending data to AWS Security Lake, you must:

1. Enable OCSF field formatting (handled automatically by the `aws_lake` pipeline)
2. Specify the appropriate OCSF schema identifier for each bucket
3. Ensure data is in Parquet format (handled automatically by the `awssecuritylake` target)

## VirtualMetric AWS Security Lake Pack

The VirtualMetric AWS Security Lake Pack provides comprehensive OCSF normalization for diverse security data sources:

- **Syslog messages** (native, CEF, LEEF formats) are automatically converted to OCSF
- **Windows Security Events** are transformed from ECS through ASIM to OCSF
- **Firewall logs** from major vendors (Fortinet, Palo Alto Networks, Check Point, Cisco ASA, SonicWall, WatchGuard, Cisco Meraki) are normalized to OCSF
- **Windows DNS logs** are converted to OCSF DNS Activity format

The pack handles multi-stage transformations, preserving vendor-specific context while ensuring OCSF compliance for AWS Security Lake ingestion.

## Example Configuration

```yaml
targets:
  - name: security_lake
    type: awssecuritylake
    pipelines:
      - aws_lake
    properties:
      key: "AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE"
      secret: "wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY"
      region: "us-east-1"
      source: "virtualmetric"
      account: "123456789012"
      buckets:
        - bucket: "aws-security-data-lake-network"
          name: "network-{{.Timestamp}}.parquet"
          schema: "OCSF4001"
        - bucket: "aws-security-data-lake-auth"
          name: "auth-{{.Timestamp}}.parquet"
          schema: "OCSF3002"
        - bucket: "aws-security-data-lake-dns"
          name: "dns-{{.Timestamp}}.parquet"
          schema: "OCSF4003"
```

In this example, the `aws_lake` pipeline automatically normalizes all events to OCSF format, and the target routes them to the appropriate buckets based on their schema class.

Commit message:

All instances of AWS were replaced with Amazon

docs/appendix/field-formats/ocsf.mdx, after:

---
pagination_prev: null
pagination_next: null
---

# OCSF

The Open Cybersecurity Schema Framework (OCSF) is an open standard for security event data that provides a vendor-agnostic way to normalize security logs across different sources. OCSF provides standardization for security-focused log data, enabling seamless integration with Amazon Security Lake and other security analytics platforms.

OCSF organizes security events into classes, each representing a specific type of security activity. When using `field_format: "ocsf"`, VirtualMetric automatically transforms your security data into OCSF-compliant format based on the event type.

## Available OCSF Schema Classes

### System Activity (1000-1999)

- `OCSF1001` - File System Activity
- `OCSF1002` - Kernel Extension Activity
- `OCSF1003` - Kernel Activity
- `OCSF1004` - Memory Activity
- `OCSF1005` - Module Activity
- `OCSF1006` - Scheduled Job Activity
- `OCSF1007` - Process Activity
- `OCSF1008` - Event Log Activity
- `OCSF1009` - Script Activity
- `OCSF1010` - Peripheral Activity

### Findings (2000-2999)

- ~~`OCSF2001` - Security Finding~~ *(deprecated in v1.1 - use specific Finding classes below)*
- `OCSF2002` - Vulnerability Finding
- `OCSF2003` - Compliance Finding
- `OCSF2004` - Detection Finding
- `OCSF2005` - Incident Finding
- `OCSF2006` - Data Security Finding *(v1.2 - DLP, data classification)*
- `OCSF2007` - Application Security Posture Finding
- `OCSF2008` - IAM Analysis Finding

### Identity & Access Management (3000-3999)

- `OCSF3001` - Account Change
- `OCSF3002` - Authentication
- `OCSF3003` - Authorize Session
- `OCSF3004` - Entity Management
- `OCSF3005` - User Access Management
- `OCSF3006` - Group Management

### Network Activity (4000-4999)

- `OCSF4001` - Network Activity
- `OCSF4002` - HTTP Activity
- `OCSF4003` - DNS Activity
- `OCSF4004` - DHCP Activity
- `OCSF4005` - RDP Activity
- `OCSF4006` - SMB Activity
- `OCSF4007` - SSH Activity
- `OCSF4008` - FTP Activity
- `OCSF4009` - Email Activity
- `OCSF4010` - Network File Activity
- `OCSF4011` - Email File Activity
- `OCSF4012` - Email URL Activity
- `OCSF4013` - NTP Activity
- `OCSF4014` - Tunnel Activity

### Discovery & Inventory (5000-5999)

- `OCSF5001` - Device Inventory Info
- `OCSF5002` - Device Config State
- `OCSF5003` - User Inventory Info
- `OCSF5004` - Operating System Patch State
- `OCSF5019` - Device Config State Change
- `OCSF5020` - Software Inventory Info *(v1.3)*
- `OCSF5021` - OSINT Inventory Info *(v1.3 - threat intelligence)*
- `OCSF5023` - Cloud Resources Inventory Info
- `OCSF5040` - Live Evidence Info

### Application Activity (6000-6999)

- `OCSF6001` - Web Resources Activity
- `OCSF6002` - Application Lifecycle
- `OCSF6003` - API Activity
- `OCSF6004` - Web Resource Access Activity
- `OCSF6005` - Datastore Activity
- `OCSF6006` - File Hosting Activity
- `OCSF6007` - Scan Activity
- `OCSF6008` - Application Error

### Remediation (7000-7999) *(v1.3)*

- `OCSF7001` - Remediation Activity
- `OCSF7002` - File Remediation Activity
- `OCSF7003` - Process Remediation Activity
- `OCSF7004` - Network Remediation Activity

## Usage

To enable OCSF normalization, specify the field format in your target configuration:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: my_target
    type: awssecuritylake
    properties:
      field_format: "ocsf"
```

When using the VirtualMetric Amazon Security Lake Pack, OCSF normalization is handled automatically through the `aws_lake` pipeline. The pack intelligently routes events to the appropriate OCSF schema class based on the source data type and vendor.

## Integration with Amazon Security Lake

OCSF is the native schema format for Amazon Security Lake. When sending data to Amazon Security Lake, you must:

1. Enable OCSF field formatting (handled automatically by the `aws_lake` pipeline)
2. Specify the appropriate OCSF schema identifier for each bucket
3. Ensure data is in Parquet format (handled automatically by the `awssecuritylake` target)

## VirtualMetric Amazon Security Lake Pack

The VirtualMetric Amazon Security Lake Pack provides comprehensive OCSF normalization for diverse security data sources:

- **Syslog messages** (native, CEF, LEEF formats) are automatically converted to OCSF
- **Windows Security Events** are transformed from ECS through ASIM to OCSF
- **Firewall logs** from major vendors (Fortinet, Palo Alto Networks, Check Point, Cisco ASA, SonicWall, WatchGuard, Cisco Meraki) are normalized to OCSF
- **Windows DNS logs** are converted to OCSF DNS Activity format

The pack handles multi-stage transformations, preserving vendor-specific context while ensuring OCSF compliance for Amazon Security Lake ingestion.

## Example Configuration

```yaml
targets:
  - name: security_lake
    type: awssecuritylake
    pipelines:
      - aws_lake
    properties:
      key: "AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE"
      secret: "wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY"
      region: "us-east-1"
      source: "virtualmetric"
      account: "123456789012"
      buckets:
        - bucket: "aws-security-data-lake-network"
          name: "network-{{.Timestamp}}.parquet"
          schema: "OCSF4001"
        - bucket: "aws-security-data-lake-auth"
          name: "auth-{{.Timestamp}}.parquet"
          schema: "OCSF3002"
        - bucket: "aws-security-data-lake-dns"
          name: "dns-{{.Timestamp}}.parquet"
          schema: "OCSF4003"
```

In this example, the `aws_lake` pipeline automatically normalizes all events to OCSF format, and the target routes them to the appropriate buckets based on their schema class.
