docs/tutorials/user-notes.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: User Notes
---

# Tutorials: User Notes

This guide contains demonstrations of various uses of **DataStream** applications.

## Organization

The tutorials are structured with the same subsections to facilitate ease-of-use and learning.

### Configuration Files

You can place your configuration files anywhere under the `config folder`.

:::note
By default, the tutorials will assume the configuration files are placed under a dedicated directory. For convenience, we suggest that you create and use the same folder.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="powershell" label="PowerShell" default>
    ```PowerShell
    New-Item -Path <vm_root>\config\Tutorials -ItemType Folder
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="bash" label="Bash">
    ```bash
    mkdir <vm_root>/config/Tutorials
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
:::

Store all YAML configuration files within this subdirectory to maintain organization and avoid conflicts with production configurations.

## Sample Data

The tutorials frequently make use of sample data which are be provided as downloads. Make sure you place them in the an accessible directory.

:::note
By default, the tutorials will use the following directory to access the sample data. For convenience, we suggest that you create the same directory with the same path and download the sample data files to that directory.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="powershell" label="PowerShell" default>
    ```PowerShell
    New-Item -Path <vm_root>\SampleData -ItemType Folder
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="bash" label="Bash">
    ```bash
    mkdir <vm_root>/SampleData
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
:::

## Common Sections

### Synopsis

Each tutorial begins with a brief statement explaining what the tutorial covers, what will be illustrated, and what the user is expected to learn through it.

It will also mention:

- Prerequisites and dependencies, if any
- Configuration files used
- Sample data for testing

### Scenario

Next comes the **Scenario** section which

- Describes the business use case or problem being solved
- Explains the data flow and expected outcomes
- Identifies the techniques demonstrated

### Setup

This section includes:

- Key configuration components
- Quick reference of processors used, if any
- Expected input/output formats

### Trial

This section includes:

- Step-by-step configuration instructions
- Command examples for running the configured components

### Monitoring

This section covers:

- Key metrics to observe during processing
- Common troubleshooting steps
- Performance considerations
- Log analysis techniques

:::caution
Tutorial configurations are for learning purposes only. Review and adapt settings for production environments.
:::

Commit message:

Major changes: created the reusable folder and moved reusable content there; created multiple tutorial chapters that need to be proofed and edited

docs/tutorials/user-notes.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: User Notes
---

# Tutorials: User Notes

This guide contains demonstrations of various uses of **DataStream** applications.

## Organization

The tutorials are structured with the same subsections to facilitate ease-of-use and learning.

### Working Directory

You can place your configuration files anywhere under the `config` folder.

:::note
By default, the tutorials will assume the configuration files are placed under a dedicated place which we will refer to as our _working directory_. For convenience, we suggest that you create and use the same folder.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="powershell" label="PowerShell" default>
    ```PowerShell
    New-Item -Path <vm_root>\config\Tutorials -ItemType Folder
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="bash" label="Bash">
    ```bash
    mkdir <vm_root>/config/Tutorials
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
:::

Store all YAML configuration files within this subdirectory to maintain organization and avoid conflicts with production configurations.

### Sample Data

The tutorials frequently make use of sample data which are be provided as downloads. Make sure you place them in the an accessible directory.

:::note
By default, the tutorials will use the following directory to access the sample data. For convenience, we suggest that you create the same directory with the same path and download the sample data files to that directory.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="powershell" label="PowerShell" default>
    ```PowerShell
    New-Item -Path <vm_root>\SampleData -ItemType Folder
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="bash" label="Bash">
    ```bash
    mkdir <vm_root>/SampleData
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
:::

## Common Sections

### Synopsis

Each tutorial begins with a brief statement explaining what the tutorial covers, what will be illustrated, and what the user is expected to learn through it.

It will also mention:

- Prerequisites and dependencies, if any
- Configuration files used
- Sample data for testing

### Scenario

Next comes the **Scenario** section which

- Describes the business use case or problem being solved
- Explains the data flow and expected outcomes
- Identifies the techniques demonstrated

### Setup

This section includes:

- Key configuration components
- Quick reference of processors used, if any
- Expected input/output formats

### Trial

This section includes:

- Step-by-step configuration instructions
- Command examples for running the configured components

### Monitoring

This section covers:

- Key metrics to observe during processing
- Common troubleshooting steps
- Performance considerations
- Log analysis techniques
