docs/configuration/scheduling/cron.mdx, before:

# Cron

## Synopsis

Cron-based execution allows targets and routes to run at specific times using cron expressions. Instead of running continuously, the component will only process data when the cron schedule condition is met.

## Schema

### Targets

```yaml
targets:
  - name: <string>
    type: <string>
    properties:
      cron: <string>
      # target-specific properties
```

### Routes

```yaml
routes:
  - name: <string>
    source: <string>
    destination: <string>
    properties:
      cron: <string>
```

## Configuration

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`cron`|N|-|Cron expression defining when the component should execute|

## Details

The cron field accepts standard cron expressions to control when a target or route executes. This is useful for scenarios where you want to:

- Process data at specific times of day
- Run components during off-peak hours
- Align execution with business schedules
- Reduce resource consumption by limiting execution windows
- Create time-based routing logic

When a cron schedule is configured, the component will only process queued data when the current time matches the cron expression. Between scheduled executions, data accumulates in the queue and is processed during the next scheduled window.

### Cron Expression Format

Standard cron format with five fields:

```
┌───────────── minute (0-59)
│ ┌───────────── hour (0-23)
│ │ ┌───────────── day of month (1-31)
│ │ │ ┌───────────── month (1-12)
│ │ │ │ ┌───────────── day of week (0-6, Sunday=0)
│ │ │ │ │
* * * * *
```

### Special Characters

- `*` - Any value
- `,` - Value list separator
- `-` - Range of values
- `/` - Step values

### Time Zone

All cron expressions are evaluated in the system's local timezone.

## Target Examples

### Every Hour

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute target at the start of every hour...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: hourly_splunk
        type: splunk
        properties:
          cron: "0 * * * *"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://splunk.example.com:8088/services/collector"
              token: "YOUR-TOKEN"
          index: "logs"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Business Hours Only

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute every 30 minutes between 9 AM and 5 PM on weekdays...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: business_hours_elastic
        type: elastic
        properties:
          cron: "*/30 9-17 * * 1-5"
          index: "business-logs"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "http://elasticsearch:9200"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Daily at Midnight

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute once per day at midnight...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: daily_archive
        type: awss3
        properties:
          cron: "0 0 * * *"
          bucket: "daily-archives"
          region: "us-east-1"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Multiple Times Per Day

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute at 6 AM, 12 PM, and 6 PM every day...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: three_times_daily
        type: splunk
        properties:
          cron: "0 6,12,18 * * *"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://splunk.example.com:8088/services/collector"
              token: "YOUR-TOKEN"
          index: "scheduled-logs"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Every 15 Minutes

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute every 15 minutes throughout the day...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: frequent_elastic
        type: elastic
        properties:
          cron: "*/15 * * * *"
          index: "frequent-logs"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "http://elasticsearch:9200"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Weekly on Mondays

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute every Monday at 9 AM...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: weekly_report
        type: splunk
        properties:
          cron: "0 9 * * 1"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://splunk.example.com:8088/services/collector"
              token: "YOUR-TOKEN"
          index: "weekly-reports"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Month End

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute on the last day of every month at midnight...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: month_end_processing
        type: bigquery
        properties:
          cron: "0 0 28-31 * *"
          project: "my-project"
          dataset: "monthly_data"
          tables:
            - "logs"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Night Processing

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute every 2 hours during night time (10 PM to 6 AM)...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: night_batch
        type: clickhouse
        properties:
          cron: "0 22,0,2,4,6 * * *"
          connection_string: "clickhouse://localhost:9000"
          table: "night_logs"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Weekends Only

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute every 4 hours on Saturday and Sunday...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: weekend_processing
        type: elastic
        properties:
          cron: "0 */4 * * 0,6"
          index: "weekend-logs"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "http://elasticsearch:9200"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Specific Day of Month

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute on the 1st and 15th of every month at noon...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: bi_monthly
        type: splunk
        properties:
          cron: "0 12 1,15 * *"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://splunk.example.com:8088/services/collector"
              token: "YOUR-TOKEN"
          index: "bi-monthly-logs"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

## Route Examples

### Business Hours Routing

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Route data to a specific target only during business hours...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    routes:
      - name: business_hours_route
        source: "application_logs"
        destination: "realtime_splunk"
        properties:
          cron: "* 9-17 * * 1-5"
      
      - name: off_hours_route
        source: "application_logs"
        destination: "batch_storage"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Daily Archive Route

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Route data to archive storage once per day at midnight...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    routes:
      - name: daily_archive_route
        source: "processed_logs"
        destination: "s3_archive"
        properties:
          cron: "0 0 * * *"
      
      - name: realtime_route
        source: "processed_logs"
        destination: "elasticsearch"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Weekend Backup Route

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Route data to backup target only on weekends...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    routes:
      - name: weekend_backup
        source: "production_logs"
        destination: "backup_target"
        properties:
          cron: "0 */6 * * 0,6"
      
      - name: primary_route
        source: "production_logs"
        destination: "primary_target"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Peak Hours Dual Routing

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Send data to multiple targets during peak hours for redundancy...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    routes:
      - name: peak_hours_primary
        source: "critical_logs"
        destination: "splunk_primary"
        properties:
          cron: "* 8-18 * * 1-5"
      
      - name: peak_hours_secondary
        source: "critical_logs"
        destination: "splunk_secondary"
        properties:
          cron: "* 8-18 * * 1-5"
      
      - name: off_peak_route
        source: "critical_logs"
        destination: "splunk_primary"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Hourly Aggregation Route

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Route aggregated data every hour while streaming raw data continuously...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    routes:
      - name: hourly_aggregates
        source: "metrics"
        destination: "bigquery_aggregates"
        properties:
          cron: "0 * * * *"
      
      - name: realtime_metrics
        source: "metrics"
        destination: "elasticsearch"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

## Common Patterns

| Pattern | Expression | Description |
|---------|-----------|-------------|
| Every minute | `* * * * *` | Run every minute |
| Every 5 minutes | `*/5 * * * *` | Run every 5 minutes |
| Every 10 minutes | `*/10 * * * *` | Run every 10 minutes |
| Every 30 minutes | `*/30 * * * *` | Run every 30 minutes |
| Every hour | `0 * * * *` | Run at the start of every hour |
| Every 2 hours | `0 */2 * * *` | Run every 2 hours |
| Every 6 hours | `0 */6 * * *` | Run every 6 hours |
| Daily at midnight | `0 0 * * *` | Run once per day at midnight |
| Daily at noon | `0 12 * * *` | Run once per day at noon |
| Weekly (Monday) | `0 0 * * 1` | Run every Monday at midnight |
| Monthly (1st) | `0 0 1 * *` | Run on the 1st of each month |
| Weekdays only | `0 9 * * 1-5` | Run weekdays at 9 AM |
| Weekends only | `0 9 * * 0,6` | Run weekends at 9 AM |

## Usage Notes

- Cron takes precedence over interval if both are configured
- Data queues up between scheduled executions
- First execution occurs at the next matching time after component initialization
- Failed executions do not trigger immediate retries, they wait for the next scheduled time
- Use cron for predictable, time-based execution patterns
- For high-frequency or continuous processing, omit cron or use interval instead
- Multiple routes can have different cron schedules, creating time-based routing logic

## Troubleshooting

### Component Not Executing

Check that:
- Cron expression is valid
- System timezone matches your expectations
- Component status is enabled
- Queue contains data to process

### Missed Executions

If executions are being skipped:
- Verify the cron expression matches your intended schedule
- Check system logs for errors during execution attempts
- Ensure previous execution completed before next scheduled time

### Timezone Issues

All cron schedules use the system's local timezone. If your logs show unexpected execution times:
- Verify system timezone configuration
- Consider adjusting cron expression to match your timezone
- Document timezone expectations in component descriptions

Commit message:

Enhance documentation and management for Agent pre-processing capabilities, including updates to deployment, management, scheduling, and sidebar navigation for improved clarity and usability.

docs/configuration/scheduling/cron.mdx, after:

# Cron

## Synopsis

Cron-based execution allows targets, routes, and Agent devices to run at specific times using cron expressions. Instead of running continuously, the component will only process data when the cron schedule condition is met.

## Schema

### Targets

```yaml
targets:
  - name: <string>
    type: <string>
    properties:
      cron: <string>
      # target-specific properties
```

### Routes

```yaml
routes:
  - name: <string>
    source: <string>
    destination: <string>
    properties:
      cron: <string>
```

### Agent Devices

```yaml
devices:
  - name: <string>
    type: windows
    properties:
      cron: <string>
      pipeline: <string>
```

## Configuration

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`cron`|N|-|Cron expression defining when the component should execute|

## Details

The cron field accepts standard cron expressions to control when a target, route, or Agent device executes. This is useful for scenarios where you want to:

- Process data at specific times of day
- Run components during off-peak hours
- Align execution with business schedules
- Reduce resource consumption by limiting execution windows
- Create time-based routing logic
- Control when Agents process logs with pipelines before transmission

When a cron schedule is configured, the component will only process queued data when the current time matches the cron expression. Between scheduled executions, data accumulates in the queue and is processed during the next scheduled window.

For Agent devices with pre-processing pipelines, cron scheduling controls when the Agent executes its pipeline transformations and transmits processed data to the Director.

### Cron Expression Format

Standard cron format with five fields:

```
┌───────────── minute (0-59)
│ ┌───────────── hour (0-23)
│ │ ┌───────────── day of month (1-31)
│ │ │ ┌───────────── month (1-12)
│ │ │ │ ┌───────────── day of week (0-6, Sunday=0)
│ │ │ │ │
* * * * *
```

### Special Characters

- `*` - Any value
- `,` - Value list separator
- `-` - Range of values
- `/` - Step values

### Time Zone

All cron expressions are evaluated in the system's local timezone.

## Target Examples

### Every Hour

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute target at the start of every hour...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: hourly_splunk
        type: splunk
        properties:
          cron: "0 * * * *"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://splunk.example.com:8088/services/collector"
              token: "YOUR-TOKEN"
          index: "logs"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Business Hours Only

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute every 30 minutes between 9 AM and 5 PM on weekdays...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: business_hours_elastic
        type: elastic
        properties:
          cron: "*/30 9-17 * * 1-5"
          index: "business-logs"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "http://elasticsearch:9200"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Daily at Midnight

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute once per day at midnight...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: daily_archive
        type: awss3
        properties:
          cron: "0 0 * * *"
          bucket: "daily-archives"
          region: "us-east-1"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Multiple Times Per Day

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute at 6 AM, 12 PM, and 6 PM every day...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: three_times_daily
        type: splunk
        properties:
          cron: "0 6,12,18 * * *"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://splunk.example.com:8088/services/collector"
              token: "YOUR-TOKEN"
          index: "scheduled-logs"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Every 15 Minutes

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute every 15 minutes throughout the day...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: frequent_elastic
        type: elastic
        properties:
          cron: "*/15 * * * *"
          index: "frequent-logs"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "http://elasticsearch:9200"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Weekly on Mondays

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute every Monday at 9 AM...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: weekly_report
        type: splunk
        properties:
          cron: "0 9 * * 1"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://splunk.example.com:8088/services/collector"
              token: "YOUR-TOKEN"
          index: "weekly-reports"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Month End

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute on the last day of every month at midnight...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: month_end_processing
        type: bigquery
        properties:
          cron: "0 0 28-31 * *"
          project: "my-project"
          dataset: "monthly_data"
          tables:
            - "logs"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Night Processing

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute every 2 hours during night time (10 PM to 6 AM)...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: night_batch
        type: clickhouse
        properties:
          cron: "0 22,0,2,4,6 * * *"
          connection_string: "clickhouse://localhost:9000"
          table: "night_logs"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Weekends Only

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute every 4 hours on Saturday and Sunday...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: weekend_processing
        type: elastic
        properties:
          cron: "0 */4 * * 0,6"
          index: "weekend-logs"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "http://elasticsearch:9200"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Specific Day of Month

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute on the 1st and 15th of every month at noon...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: bi_monthly
        type: splunk
        properties:
          cron: "0 12 1,15 * *"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://splunk.example.com:8088/services/collector"
              token: "YOUR-TOKEN"
          index: "bi-monthly-logs"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

## Route Examples

### Business Hours Routing

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Route data to a specific target only during business hours...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    routes:
      - name: business_hours_route
        source: "application_logs"
        destination: "realtime_splunk"
        properties:
          cron: "* 9-17 * * 1-5"
      
      - name: off_hours_route
        source: "application_logs"
        destination: "batch_storage"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Daily Archive Route

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Route data to archive storage once per day at midnight...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    routes:
      - name: daily_archive_route
        source: "processed_logs"
        destination: "s3_archive"
        properties:
          cron: "0 0 * * *"
      
      - name: realtime_route
        source: "processed_logs"
        destination: "elasticsearch"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Weekend Backup Route

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Route data to backup target only on weekends...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    routes:
      - name: weekend_backup
        source: "production_logs"
        destination: "backup_target"
        properties:
          cron: "0 */6 * * 0,6"
      
      - name: primary_route
        source: "production_logs"
        destination: "primary_target"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Peak Hours Dual Routing

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Send data to multiple targets during peak hours for redundancy...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    routes:
      - name: peak_hours_primary
        source: "critical_logs"
        destination: "splunk_primary"
        properties:
          cron: "* 8-18 * * 1-5"
      
      - name: peak_hours_secondary
        source: "critical_logs"
        destination: "splunk_secondary"
        properties:
          cron: "* 8-18 * * 1-5"
      
      - name: off_peak_route
        source: "critical_logs"
        destination: "splunk_primary"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Hourly Aggregation Route

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Route aggregated data every hour while streaming raw data continuously...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    routes:
      - name: hourly_aggregates
        source: "metrics"
        destination: "bigquery_aggregates"
        properties:
          cron: "0 * * * *"
      
      - name: realtime_metrics
        source: "metrics"
        destination: "elasticsearch"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

## Common Patterns

| Pattern | Expression | Description |
|---------|-----------|-------------|
| Every minute | `* * * * *` | Run every minute |
| Every 5 minutes | `*/5 * * * *` | Run every 5 minutes |
| Every 10 minutes | `*/10 * * * *` | Run every 10 minutes |
| Every 30 minutes | `*/30 * * * *` | Run every 30 minutes |
| Every hour | `0 * * * *` | Run at the start of every hour |
| Every 2 hours | `0 */2 * * *` | Run every 2 hours |
| Every 6 hours | `0 */6 * * *` | Run every 6 hours |
| Daily at midnight | `0 0 * * *` | Run once per day at midnight |
| Daily at noon | `0 12 * * *` | Run once per day at noon |
| Weekly (Monday) | `0 0 * * 1` | Run every Monday at midnight |
| Monthly (1st) | `0 0 1 * *` | Run on the 1st of each month |
| Weekdays only | `0 9 * * 1-5` | Run weekdays at 9 AM |
| Weekends only | `0 9 * * 0,6` | Run weekends at 9 AM |

## Usage Notes

- Cron takes precedence over interval if both are configured
- Data queues up between scheduled executions
- First execution occurs at the next matching time after component initialization
- Failed executions do not trigger immediate retries, they wait for the next scheduled time
- Use cron for predictable, time-based execution patterns
- For high-frequency or continuous processing, omit cron or use interval instead
- Multiple routes can have different cron schedules, creating time-based routing logic

## Troubleshooting

### Component Not Executing

Check that:
- Cron expression is valid
- System timezone matches your expectations
- Component status is enabled
- Queue contains data to process

### Missed Executions

If executions are being skipped:
- Verify the cron expression matches your intended schedule
- Check system logs for errors during execution attempts
- Ensure previous execution completed before next scheduled time

### Timezone Issues

All cron schedules use the system's local timezone. If your logs show unexpected execution times:
- Verify system timezone configuration
- Consider adjusting cron expression to match your timezone
- Document timezone expectations in component descriptions
