docs/configuration/scheduling/interval.mdx, before:

# Interval

## Synopsis

Interval controls how frequently a target or route executes, measured in time units or seconds. This provides simple, periodic execution without the complexity of cron expressions.

## Schema

### Targets

```yaml
targets:
  - name: <string>
    type: <string>
    properties:
      interval: <string|numeric>
      # target-specific properties
```

### Routes

```yaml
routes:
  - name: <string>
    source: <string>
    destination: <string>
    properties:
      interval: <string|numeric>
```

## Configuration

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`interval`|N|realtime|Execution frequency using time units (5m, 1h) or seconds (300)|

## Details

The interval field determines how often a target or route processes queued data. When configured, the component will execute at regular intervals rather than continuously. This helps:

- Control resource consumption
- Batch data for more efficient processing
- Reduce API call frequency to external services
- Manage costs for volume-based services
- Create time-based routing logic

Between interval executions, data accumulates in the queue and is processed during the next execution window.

### Format Options

Interval accepts two formats:

**Time Units (Recommended)**
- Append a unit suffix to the number
- More readable and self-documenting
- Units: `s` (seconds), `m` (minutes), `h` (hours), `d` (days)

**Seconds (Numeric)**
- Plain integer representing seconds
- Useful for programmatic configuration
- Example: `300` equals 5 minutes

### Special Values

- Omit the field or set to `0` or `1` for realtime (continuous) execution
- Values less than 1 second are treated as realtime

### Execution Behavior

The first execution occurs immediately after component initialization. Subsequent executions occur at the specified interval after the previous execution completes. This means the actual time between executions includes both the interval delay and the processing time.

## Target Examples

### Every 5 Minutes

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute target every 5 minutes...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: frequent_splunk
        type: splunk
        properties:
          interval: "5m"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://splunk.example.com:8088/services/collector"
              token: "YOUR-TOKEN"
          index: "logs"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Every Hour

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute target every hour using time unit format...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: hourly_elastic
        type: elastic
        properties:
          interval: "1h"
          index: "hourly-logs"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "http://elasticsearch:9200"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Every 30 Seconds

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute target every 30 seconds for near-realtime processing...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: rapid_kafka
        type: kafka
        properties:
          interval: "30s"
          brokers:
            - "kafka1:9092"
            - "kafka2:9092"
          topic: "logs"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Every 15 Minutes (Numeric)

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute every 15 minutes using numeric seconds format...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: quarter_hourly
        type: splunk
        properties:
          interval: 900
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://splunk.example.com:8088/services/collector"
              token: "YOUR-TOKEN"
          index: "logs"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Every 6 Hours

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute target every 6 hours for batch processing...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: batch_s3
        type: awss3
        properties:
          interval: "6h"
          bucket: "log-archives"
          region: "us-east-1"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Every 2 Hours

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute every 2 hours with large batches...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: batch_clickhouse
        type: clickhouse
        properties:
          interval: "2h"
          connection_string: "clickhouse://localhost:9000"
          table: "logs"
          batch_size: 50000
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Every Day

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute once per day for daily aggregations...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: daily_bigquery
        type: bigquery
        properties:
          interval: "24h"
          project: "my-project"
          dataset: "daily_data"
          tables:
            - "logs"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Every 10 Minutes

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute every 10 minutes for moderate batching...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: moderate_elastic
        type: elastic
        properties:
          interval: "10m"
          index: "batched-logs"
          batch_size: 20000
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "http://elasticsearch:9200"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Every 3 Hours

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute every 3 hours for cost optimization...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: cost_optimized
        type: sentinel
        properties:
          interval: "3h"
          workspace_id: "YOUR-WORKSPACE-ID"
          shared_key: "YOUR-SHARED-KEY"
          log_type: "CustomLogs"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Realtime Processing

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Omit interval for continuous, realtime processing...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: realtime_splunk
        type: splunk
        properties:
          # No interval specified - processes continuously
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://splunk.example.com:8088/services/collector"
              token: "YOUR-TOKEN"
          index: "realtime-logs"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

## Route Examples

### Periodic Archive Route

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Route data to archive storage every hour...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    routes:
      - name: hourly_archive
        source: "processed_logs"
        destination: "s3_archive"
        properties:
          interval: "1h"
      
      - name: realtime_route
        source: "processed_logs"
        destination: "elasticsearch"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Batch Processing Route

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Route data to batch target every 15 minutes...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    routes:
      - name: batch_route
        source: "application_logs"
        destination: "batch_processor"
        properties:
          interval: "15m"
      
      - name: stream_route
        source: "application_logs"
        destination: "realtime_processor"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Cost Optimized Route

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Route data to expensive target every 6 hours to reduce costs...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    routes:
      - name: cost_optimized_route
        source: "high_volume_logs"
        destination: "expensive_analytics"
        properties:
          interval: "6h"
      
      - name: cheap_storage_route
        source: "high_volume_logs"
        destination: "s3_storage"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Aggregation Route

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Route aggregated metrics every 5 minutes while streaming raw data...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    routes:
      - name: aggregated_route
        source: "metrics"
        destination: "aggregated_storage"
        properties:
          interval: "5m"
      
      - name: raw_route
        source: "metrics"
        destination: "raw_storage"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Periodic Backup Route

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Route data to backup every 30 minutes...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    routes:
      - name: backup_route
        source: "critical_logs"
        destination: "backup_storage"
        properties:
          interval: "30m"
      
      - name: primary_route
        source: "critical_logs"
        destination: "primary_storage"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

## Common Intervals

| Interval | Time Unit | Seconds | Use Case |
|----------|-----------|---------|----------|
| 30 seconds | `30s` | `30` | Near-realtime, low latency |
| 1 minute | `1m` | `60` | Frequent updates |
| 5 minutes | `5m` | `300` | Balanced batching |
| 10 minutes | `10m` | `600` | Moderate batching |
| 15 minutes | `15m` | `900` | Quarter-hourly processing |
| 30 minutes | `30m` | `1800` | Half-hourly processing |
| 1 hour | `1h` | `3600` | Hourly aggregation |
| 2 hours | `2h` | `7200` | Light batch processing |
| 6 hours | `6h` | `21600` | Heavy batch processing |
| 12 hours | `12h` | `43200` | Twice daily |
| 24 hours | `24h` | `86400` | Daily processing |

## Comparison with Schedule

| Feature | Interval | Schedule |
|---------|----------|----------|
| Format | Time units or seconds | Cron expression |
| Complexity | Simple | Complex |
| First execution | Immediate | Next matching time |
| Execution pattern | Fixed intervals | Specific times |
| Best for | Regular frequency | Time-specific events |

Use `interval` when:
- You want simple, regular frequency
- Exact execution time doesn't matter
- You need immediate first execution
- Configuration should be simple and readable

Use `schedule` when:
- You need specific execution times
- Business schedules matter (business hours, weekends)
- You want to avoid certain time windows
- Complex patterns are required

## Performance Considerations

### Short Intervals (< 1 minute)

- Near-realtime processing
- Higher resource consumption
- More frequent API calls
- Better for latency-sensitive scenarios

### Medium Intervals (1-30 minutes)

- Balanced approach
- Reasonable batching
- Moderate resource usage
- Good for most use cases

### Long Intervals (> 1 hour)

- Large batch processing
- Lower resource consumption
- Reduced API call frequency
- Better for cost optimization

### Batch Size Interaction

Combine interval with batch size for optimal performance:

```yaml
properties:
  interval: "5m"
  batch_size: 10000
```

This ensures batches don't exceed 10,000 events even if more accumulate during the 5-minute interval.

## Usage Notes

- Interval measures time between executions, not including processing time
- If processing takes longer than the interval, the next execution waits for completion
- Schedule takes precedence if both interval and schedule are configured
- Use interval for simple periodic execution, schedule for complex time-based patterns
- Omitting interval defaults to realtime (continuous) processing
- Values less than 1 second are treated as realtime
- Multiple routes can have different intervals, creating time-based routing logic

## Troubleshooting

### Component Executing Too Frequently

If the component runs more often than expected:
- Verify interval value and unit
- Check for multiple component configurations
- Ensure processing completes quickly to maintain interval

### Component Not Executing at Expected Frequency

If executions are delayed:
- Processing time may exceed interval duration
- Check system resources and component performance
- Consider increasing batch size to reduce execution frequency
- Review logs for errors or performance issues

### Resource Consumption Issues

If resources are constrained:
- Increase interval to reduce execution frequency
- Optimize batch size and component configuration
- Monitor queue depth between executions
- Consider moving to schedule for off-peak processing

Commit message:

Enhance documentation and management for Agent pre-processing capabilities, including updates to deployment, management, scheduling, and sidebar navigation for improved clarity and usability.

docs/configuration/scheduling/interval.mdx, after:

# Interval

## Synopsis

Interval controls how frequently a target, route, or Agent device executes, measured in time units or seconds. This provides simple, periodic execution without the complexity of cron expressions.

## Schema

### Targets

```yaml
targets:
  - name: <string>
    type: <string>
    properties:
      interval: <string|numeric>
      # target-specific properties
```

### Routes

```yaml
routes:
  - name: <string>
    source: <string>
    destination: <string>
    properties:
      interval: <string|numeric>
```

### Agent Devices

```yaml
devices:
  - name: <string>
    type: windows
    properties:
      interval: <string|numeric>
      pipeline: <string>
```

## Configuration

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`interval`|N|realtime|Execution frequency using time units (5m, 1h) or seconds (300)|

## Details

The interval field determines how often a target, route, or Agent device processes queued data. When configured, the component will execute at regular intervals rather than continuously. This helps:

- Control resource consumption
- Batch data for more efficient processing
- Reduce API call frequency to external services
- Manage costs for volume-based services
- Create time-based routing logic
- Reduce Agent resource usage and network bandwidth consumption

Between interval executions, data accumulates in the queue and is processed during the next execution window.

For Agent devices with pre-processing pipelines, interval scheduling controls how frequently the Agent executes its pipeline transformations and transmits processed data to the Director.

### Format Options

Interval accepts two formats:

**Time Units (Recommended)**
- Append a unit suffix to the number
- More readable and self-documenting
- Units: `s` (seconds), `m` (minutes), `h` (hours), `d` (days)

**Seconds (Numeric)**
- Plain integer representing seconds
- Useful for programmatic configuration
- Example: `300` equals 5 minutes

### Special Values

- Omit the field or set to `0` or `1` for realtime (continuous) execution
- Values less than 1 second are treated as realtime

### Execution Behavior

The first execution occurs immediately after component initialization. Subsequent executions occur at the specified interval after the previous execution completes. This means the actual time between executions includes both the interval delay and the processing time.

## Target Examples

### Every 5 Minutes

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute target every 5 minutes...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: frequent_splunk
        type: splunk
        properties:
          interval: "5m"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://splunk.example.com:8088/services/collector"
              token: "YOUR-TOKEN"
          index: "logs"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Every Hour

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute target every hour using time unit format...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: hourly_elastic
        type: elastic
        properties:
          interval: "1h"
          index: "hourly-logs"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "http://elasticsearch:9200"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Every 30 Seconds

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute target every 30 seconds for near-realtime processing...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: rapid_kafka
        type: kafka
        properties:
          interval: "30s"
          brokers:
            - "kafka1:9092"
            - "kafka2:9092"
          topic: "logs"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Every 15 Minutes (Numeric)

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute every 15 minutes using numeric seconds format...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: quarter_hourly
        type: splunk
        properties:
          interval: 900
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://splunk.example.com:8088/services/collector"
              token: "YOUR-TOKEN"
          index: "logs"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Every 6 Hours

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute target every 6 hours for batch processing...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: batch_s3
        type: awss3
        properties:
          interval: "6h"
          bucket: "log-archives"
          region: "us-east-1"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Every 2 Hours

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute every 2 hours with large batches...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: batch_clickhouse
        type: clickhouse
        properties:
          interval: "2h"
          connection_string: "clickhouse://localhost:9000"
          table: "logs"
          batch_size: 50000
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Every Day

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute once per day for daily aggregations...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: daily_bigquery
        type: bigquery
        properties:
          interval: "24h"
          project: "my-project"
          dataset: "daily_data"
          tables:
            - "logs"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Every 10 Minutes

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute every 10 minutes for moderate batching...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: moderate_elastic
        type: elastic
        properties:
          interval: "10m"
          index: "batched-logs"
          batch_size: 20000
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "http://elasticsearch:9200"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Every 3 Hours

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Execute every 3 hours for cost optimization...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: cost_optimized
        type: sentinel
        properties:
          interval: "3h"
          workspace_id: "YOUR-WORKSPACE-ID"
          shared_key: "YOUR-SHARED-KEY"
          log_type: "CustomLogs"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Realtime Processing

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Omit interval for continuous, realtime processing...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: realtime_splunk
        type: splunk
        properties:
          # No interval specified - processes continuously
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://splunk.example.com:8088/services/collector"
              token: "YOUR-TOKEN"
          index: "realtime-logs"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

## Route Examples

### Periodic Archive Route

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Route data to archive storage every hour...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    routes:
      - name: hourly_archive
        source: "processed_logs"
        destination: "s3_archive"
        properties:
          interval: "1h"
      
      - name: realtime_route
        source: "processed_logs"
        destination: "elasticsearch"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Batch Processing Route

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Route data to batch target every 15 minutes...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    routes:
      - name: batch_route
        source: "application_logs"
        destination: "batch_processor"
        properties:
          interval: "15m"
      
      - name: stream_route
        source: "application_logs"
        destination: "realtime_processor"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Cost Optimized Route

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Route data to expensive target every 6 hours to reduce costs...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    routes:
      - name: cost_optimized_route
        source: "high_volume_logs"
        destination: "expensive_analytics"
        properties:
          interval: "6h"
      
      - name: cheap_storage_route
        source: "high_volume_logs"
        destination: "s3_storage"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Aggregation Route

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Route aggregated metrics every 5 minutes while streaming raw data...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    routes:
      - name: aggregated_route
        source: "metrics"
        destination: "aggregated_storage"
        properties:
          interval: "5m"
      
      - name: raw_route
        source: "metrics"
        destination: "raw_storage"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Periodic Backup Route

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Route data to backup every 30 minutes...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    routes:
      - name: backup_route
        source: "critical_logs"
        destination: "backup_storage"
        properties:
          interval: "30m"
      
      - name: primary_route
        source: "critical_logs"
        destination: "primary_storage"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

## Common Intervals

| Interval | Time Unit | Seconds | Use Case |
|----------|-----------|---------|----------|
| 30 seconds | `30s` | `30` | Near-realtime, low latency |
| 1 minute | `1m` | `60` | Frequent updates |
| 5 minutes | `5m` | `300` | Balanced batching |
| 10 minutes | `10m` | `600` | Moderate batching |
| 15 minutes | `15m` | `900` | Quarter-hourly processing |
| 30 minutes | `30m` | `1800` | Half-hourly processing |
| 1 hour | `1h` | `3600` | Hourly aggregation |
| 2 hours | `2h` | `7200` | Light batch processing |
| 6 hours | `6h` | `21600` | Heavy batch processing |
| 12 hours | `12h` | `43200` | Twice daily |
| 24 hours | `24h` | `86400` | Daily processing |

## Comparison with Schedule

| Feature | Interval | Schedule |
|---------|----------|----------|
| Format | Time units or seconds | Cron expression |
| Complexity | Simple | Complex |
| First execution | Immediate | Next matching time |
| Execution pattern | Fixed intervals | Specific times |
| Best for | Regular frequency | Time-specific events |

Use `interval` when:
- You want simple, regular frequency
- Exact execution time doesn't matter
- You need immediate first execution
- Configuration should be simple and readable

Use `schedule` when:
- You need specific execution times
- Business schedules matter (business hours, weekends)
- You want to avoid certain time windows
- Complex patterns are required

## Performance Considerations

### Short Intervals (< 1 minute)

- Near-realtime processing
- Higher resource consumption
- More frequent API calls
- Better for latency-sensitive scenarios

### Medium Intervals (1-30 minutes)

- Balanced approach
- Reasonable batching
- Moderate resource usage
- Good for most use cases

### Long Intervals (> 1 hour)

- Large batch processing
- Lower resource consumption
- Reduced API call frequency
- Better for cost optimization

### Batch Size Interaction

Combine interval with batch size for optimal performance:

```yaml
properties:
  interval: "5m"
  batch_size: 10000
```

This ensures batches don't exceed 10,000 events even if more accumulate during the 5-minute interval.

## Usage Notes

- Interval measures time between executions, not including processing time
- If processing takes longer than the interval, the next execution waits for completion
- Schedule takes precedence if both interval and schedule are configured
- Use interval for simple periodic execution, schedule for complex time-based patterns
- Omitting interval defaults to realtime (continuous) processing
- Values less than 1 second are treated as realtime
- Multiple routes can have different intervals, creating time-based routing logic

## Troubleshooting

### Component Executing Too Frequently

If the component runs more often than expected:
- Verify interval value and unit
- Check for multiple component configurations
- Ensure processing completes quickly to maintain interval

### Component Not Executing at Expected Frequency

If executions are delayed:
- Processing time may exceed interval duration
- Check system resources and component performance
- Consider increasing batch size to reduce execution frequency
- Review logs for errors or performance issues

### Resource Consumption Issues

If resources are constrained:
- Increase interval to reduce execution frequency
- Optimize batch size and component configuration
- Monitor queue depth between executions
- Consider moving to schedule for off-peak processing
