docs/admin/pipelines/processors/date_index.mdx, before:

# Date Index

## Synopsis

```yaml {2,3}
date_index:
   - date_rounding: <enumerated>
   - field: <ident>
   - date_formats: <enumerated>
   - description: <string>
   - if: <script>
   - ignore_failure: <logical>
   - ignore_missing: <logical>
   - index_name_format: <logical>
   - index_name_prefix: <string>
   - locale: <enumerated>
   - on_failure: <processors...>
   - on_success: <processors...>
   - tag: <string>
   - time_zone: <enumerated>
```

## Description

**Functionality**: Points events to the right time-based index according to the date or timestamp field in an event.

The `_index` metadata value is set with a date index expression based on the specified index prefix, a date or timestamp field in the document being processed, and the specified date rounding.

A date formatting can be configured to specify how the field's value should be parsed. Based on this, the specified index prefix and date rounding get formatted into an date index expression.

## Parameters

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`date_rounding`|Y|N/A|Rounding logic. Valid values: `y`, `M`, `w`, `d`, `h`, `m`, `s` (year, month, week, day, hour, minute, second)|
|`field`|Y|N/A|Field to get the date or timestamp from|
|`date_formats`|N|`yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss.SSSXX`|Expected date format for parsing dates/timestamps. Valid formats: Java time pattern, ISO8601, UNIX, UNIX_MS, or TAI64N|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note|
|`if`|N|-|Condition to run|
|`ignore_failure`|N|`false`|See [Handling Failures](../handling-failures.mdx)|
|`ignore_missing`|N|||
|`index_name_format`|N|`yyyy-MM-dd`|Format to use to print the parsed date. Expects a valid Java pattern.|
|`index_name_prefix`|N|-|Prefix of the index to be prepended to the printed date|
|`locale`|N|`ENGLISH`|Locale to use to parse the date|
|`on_failure`|N|-|See [Handling Failures](../handling-failures.mdx)|
|`on_success`|N|-|See [Handling Success](../handling-success.mdx)|
|`tag`|N|-|Identifier|
|`time_zone`|N|`UTC`|Timezone to use to parse the date|

## Examples

This example points the data to a monthly index that starts with a `monthly-` prefix based on a date in the `local_date` field:

```yaml
date_index:
   - field: local_date
   - index_name_prefix: "monthly-"
   - date_rounding: "M"
```

An index request from the same pipeline:

```yaml
local_date: "2024-06-55T09:05:11.3346"
```

Commit message:

Reedited the examples for JSON input and output, keeping yaml only for specs

docs/admin/pipelines/processors/date_index.mdx, after:

# Date Index

## Synopsis

```yaml {2,3}
date_index:
   - date_rounding: <enumerated>
   - field: <ident>
   - date_formats: <enumerated>
   - description: <string>
   - if: <script>
   - ignore_failure: <logical>
   - ignore_missing: <logical>
   - index_name_format: <logical>
   - index_name_prefix: <string>
   - locale: <enumerated>
   - on_failure: <processors...>
   - on_success: <processors...>
   - tag: <string>
   - time_zone: <enumerated>
```

## Description

**Functionality**: Points events to the right time-based index according to the date or timestamp field in an event.

The `_index` metadata value is set with a date index expression based on the specified index prefix, a date or timestamp field in the document being processed, and the specified date rounding.

A date formatting can be configured to specify how the field's value should be parsed. Based on this, the specified index prefix and date rounding get formatted into an date index expression.

## Parameters

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`date_rounding`|Y|N/A|Rounding logic. Valid values: `y`, `M`, `w`, `d`, `h`, `m`, `s` (year, month, week, day, hour, minute, second)|
|`field`|Y|N/A|Field to get the date or timestamp from|
|`date_formats`|N|`yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss.SSSXX`|Expected date format for parsing dates/timestamps. Valid formats: Java time pattern, ISO8601, UNIX, UNIX_MS, or TAI64N|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note|
|`if`|N|-|Condition to run|
|`ignore_failure`|N|`false`|See [Handling Failures](../handling-failures.mdx)|
|`ignore_missing`|N|||
|`index_name_format`|N|`yyyy-MM-dd`|Format to use to print the parsed date. Expects a valid Java pattern.|
|`index_name_prefix`|N|-|Prefix of the index to be prepended to the printed date|
|`locale`|N|`ENGLISH`|Locale to use to parse the date|
|`on_failure`|N|-|See [Handling Failures](../handling-failures.mdx)|
|`on_success`|N|-|See [Handling Success](../handling-success.mdx)|
|`tag`|N|-|Identifier|
|`time_zone`|N|`UTC`|Timezone to use to parse the date|

## Examples

Based on a date in the `local_date` field, ğoint the data to a monthly index whose id starts with a `foo-` prefix:

```yaml
date_index:
   - field: local_date
   - index_name_prefix: "foo-"
   - date_rounding: "M"
```
