docs/admin/pipelines/processors/date.mdx, before:

# Date

<Synopsis>
Parses the fields for dates and uses them as timestamp for the document.
</Synopsis>

By default, the parsed date is added as a new field called `@timestamp`. A different field can be set with `target_field`.

Multiple date formats can be specified which will be used sequentially to parse the date.

## Parameters

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`field`|Y|N/A|Field containing the date|
|`formats`|Y|-|Expected date formats. Valid options: Java time pattern, ISO8601, UNIX, UNIX_MS, or TAI64N|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note|
|`if`|N|-|Condition to run|
|`ignore_failure`|N|`false`|See [Handling Failures](../handling-failures.mdx)|
|`locale`|N|`ENGLISH`|The locale to use in parsing. May impact month names and weekdays|
|`on_failure`|N|-|See [Handling Failures](../handling-failures.mdx)|
|`on_success`|N|-|See [Handling Success](../handling-success.mdx)|
|`output_format`|N|`yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss.SSSXXX`|The format to use when printing the date to a `target_field`. Must be valid Java time pattern|
|`tag`|N|-|Identifier|
|`target_field`|N|`@timestamp`|Field to assign the parsed date|
|`timezone`|N|`UTC`|The timezone to use in parsing|

## Examples

Adding the parsed date to the `timestamp` field based on the `initial_date` field:

```yaml
processors:
   - date:
      - field: "initial_date"
      - target_field: "timestamp"
      - formats: "dd/MM/yyyy HH:mm:ss"
      - timezone: "Europe/London"
```

The `timezone` and `locale` parameters can be extracted from fields in the document if templated. The following spec show how to extract them from the templated fields `foo` and `bar`.

```yaml
date:
   - field: "initial_date"
   - target_field: "timestamp"
   - formats: "ISO8601"
   - timezone: "{{foo}}"
   - locale: "{{bar}}"
```

Commit message:

Redesigned the page format for processors, and added an Appendix page

docs/admin/pipelines/processors/date.mdx, after:

# Date

## Synopsis

```yaml {2,3}
date:
  -  field: <ident>
  -  formats: <enumerated>
  -  description: <string>
  -  if: <script>
  -  ignore_failure: <logical>
  -  locale: <enumerated>
  -  on_failure: <processors...>
  -  on_success: <processors...>
  -  output_format: <enumerated>
  -  tag: <string>
  -  target_field: <ident>
  -  timezone: <enumerated>
```

## Description

**Functionality**: Parses the fields for dates and uses them as timestamp for the document.

By default, the parsed date is added as a new field called `@timestamp`. A different field can be set with `target_field`.

Multiple date formats can be specified which will be used sequentially to parse the date.

## Parameters

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`field`|Y|N/A|Field containing the date|
|`formats`|Y|-|Expected date formats. Valid options: Java time pattern, ISO8601, UNIX, UNIX_MS, or TAI64N|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note|
|`if`|N|-|Condition to run|
|`ignore_failure`|N|`false`|See [Handling Failures](../handling-failures.mdx)|
|`locale`|N|`ENGLISH`|The locale to use in parsing. May impact month names and weekdays|
|`on_failure`|N|-|See [Handling Failures](../handling-failures.mdx)|
|`on_success`|N|-|See [Handling Success](../handling-success.mdx)|
|`output_format`|N|`yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss.SSSXXX`|The format to use when printing the date to a `target_field`. Must be valid Java time pattern|
|`tag`|N|-|Identifier|
|`target_field`|N|`@timestamp`|Field to assign the parsed date|
|`timezone`|N|`UTC`|The timezone to use in parsing|

## Examples

Adding the parsed date to the `timestamp` field based on the `initial_date` field:

```yaml
processors:
   - date:
      - field: "initial_date"
      - target_field: "timestamp"
      - formats: "dd/MM/yyyy HH:mm:ss"
      - timezone: "Europe/London"
```

The `timezone` and `locale` parameters can be extracted from fields in the document if templated. The following spec show how to extract them from the templated fields `foo` and `bar`.

```yaml
date:
   - field: "initial_date"
   - target_field: "timestamp"
   - formats: "ISO8601"
   - timezone: "{{foo}}"
   - locale: "{{bar}}"
```
