docs/gui/organization/users.mdx, before:

# Users

The **Users** view allows administrators to control user accounts, permissions, and access within the **DataStream** platform. It provides the ability to create, edit, disable, and monitor user accounts across your organization.

## Overview

To access the **Users** view 

- Go to the **Home** > **Organization** pane
- Click **Manage Users**

-or-

- Click the hamburger menu on the top left
- Select **Organization** > **Users**

### Users table

The view contains a table of all registered users in your organization with their essential information:

- **Full name** - First and last name of the user
- **Email** - Primary address for contact and sign-in for the user
- **User Role** - The role assigned to the user in data stream management
- **Status** - Status of the user (_Active_ or _Passive_)

The **Search users** text field helps you quickly find specific users by _name_ or _email_.

The **Status filter** dropdown filters users by status.

The **Items per page** field controls pagination settings (10, 25, 50 items), and the **Page navigation** buttons show current page and total pages.

### Actions menu

On the right side of each row, there is a vertical ellipsis (&#x22EE;) for a dropdown which lists the actions that can be performed on the user:

- **Manage user** - Navigates to the **Details** page for the user
- **Delete user** - Deletes the user after which the user loses access to the organization
- **Disable/Enable user** - Disabling the user blacks access; enabling the user restores access

The **Add new user** button initiates the process of creating a new user.

## User Details

This tab contains the information defined in the user's account:

- **Full name** - First and last name of the user
- **User email** - Primary point of contact for the organization with the user. Enter a current, valid address
- **Timezone preference** - User's locale setting for date and time. See <Topic id="gui-account-timezone">this section</Topic> for details
- **Language** - Language preference of the user. See <Topic id="gui-account-language">this section</Topic> for details
- **Authentication** - Set password for the user. If the organization has enabled the **Single Sign On** feature, the password is set elsewhere. {/* TODO: Clarify */}
- **Select role and user permissions** - User role and assigned permissions. (See <Topic id="gui-role-permissions">**this section**</Topic> for details.) Default choices:
  - **User (Read Only)** - User has only read-only accessş to data streams
  - **Admin** - User has full access to data streams

## Access Details

This tab contains a log of the details of the user's activities while accessing the organization's data streams. The table displays the following information

- **Email** - Primary point of contact for the user
- **User IP** - IP address assigned to the user during access
- **Object Type** - Type of object accessed
- **Object** - Name assigned to the object when it was created
- **Action** - Action performed on the mentioned object
- **Action Description** - Detailed description of the task performed during access
- **Date** - Date of access

Clicking the **Add user** button completes the user creation process.

## Creating Users

- In the **Users** view, click **Add new user**.
- Enter the information for the user account to be created. See [**above**](#user-details) for the details of the page.
<Include id="info-user-creation-permissions" />
- After entering the relevant details, click the **Add user** button to complete the process.

## Managing Users

- In the **Users** table, select the row of the user you want to manage.
- Click the action menu (the vertical ellipsis &#x22EE;) on the right side.
- From the dropdown, select **Manage user**.

This will take you to the **User Details** page. See [**above**](#user-details) for the details of the page.

Clicking the **Manage user details** button activates the form for editing.

- After making the necessary changes, click the **Save changes** button to update the user's information.

Commit message:

Final fixes on GUI Organization chapters

docs/gui/organization/users.mdx, after:

# Users

The **Users** view allows administrators to control user accounts, permissions, and access within the **DataStream** platform. It provides the ability to create, edit, disable, and monitor user accounts across your organization.

## Overview

To access the **Users** view 

- Go to the **Home** > **Organization** pane
- Click **Manage Users**

-or-

- Click the hamburger menu on the top left
- Select **Organization** > **Users**

### Users table

The view contains a table of all registered users in your organization with their essential information:

- **Full name** - First and last name of the user
- **Email** - Primary address for contact and sign-in for the user
- **User Role** - The role assigned to the user in data stream management
- **Status** - Status of the user (_Active_ or _Passive_)

The **Search users** text field helps you quickly find specific users by _name_ or _email_.

The **Status filter** dropdown filters users by status.

The **Items per page** field controls pagination settings (10, 25, 50 items), and the **Page navigation** buttons show current page and total pages.

### Actions menu

On the right side of each row, there is a vertical ellipsis (&#x22EE;) for a dropdown which lists the actions that can be performed on the user:

- **Manage user** - Navigates to the **Details** page for the user
- **Delete user** - Deletes the user after which the user loses access to the organization
- **Disable/Enable user** - Disabling the user blacks access; enabling the user restores access

The **Add new user** button initiates the process of creating a new user.

## User Details

This tab contains the information defined in the user's account:

- **Full name** - First and last name of the user
- **User email** - Primary point of contact for the organization with the user. Enter a current, valid address
- **Timezone preference** - User's locale setting for date and time. See <Topic id="gui-account-timezone">**this section**</Topic> for details
- **Language** - Language preference of the user. See <Topic id="gui-account-language">**this section**</Topic> for details
- **Authentication** - Set password for the user.
- **Select role and user permissions** - User role and assigned permissions. (See <Topic id="gui-role-permissions">**this section**</Topic> for details.) Default choices:
  - **User (Read Only)** - User has only read-only accessş to data streams
  - **Admin** - User has full access to data streams

    <Include id="important-transfer-of-ownership" />

## Access Details

This tab contains a log of the details of the user's activities while accessing the organization's data streams. The table displays the following information

- **Email** - Primary point of contact for the user
- **User IP** - IP address assigned to the user during access
- **Object Type** - Type of object accessed
- **Object** - Name assigned to the object when it was created
- **Action** - Action performed on the mentioned object
- **Action Description** - Detailed description of the task performed during access
- **Date** - Date of access

Clicking the **Add user** button completes the user creation process.

## Creating Users

- In the **Users** view, click **Add new user**.
- Enter the information for the user account to be created. See [**above**](#user-details) for the details of the page.
<Include id="info-user-creation-permissions" />
- After entering the relevant details, click the **Add user** button to complete the process.

## Managing Users

- In the **Users** table, select the row of the user you want to manage.
- Click the action menu (the vertical ellipsis &#x22EE;) on the right side.
- From the dropdown, select **Manage user**.

This will take you to the **User Details** page. See [**above**](#user-details) for the details of the page.

Clicking the **Manage user details** button activates the form for editing.

- After making the necessary changes, click the **Save changes** button to update the user's information.

## Deleting Users

To delete a user,

- Go to the **Users** table view
- Select the user you want to delete
- Click the **Actions** dropdown (&#x22EE;), and select **Delete user**

The user is deleted and removed from the list.
