docs/configuration/targets/cloud-storage/wasabi-cloud-storage.mdx, before:

# Wasabi Hot Cloud Storage

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Wasabi</span><span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Long Term Storage</span>

## Synopsis

Creates a target that writes log messages to Wasabi Hot Cloud Storage with support for various file formats and authentication methods. The target handles large file uploads efficiently with configurable rotation based on size or event count. Wasabi provides high-performance, cost-effective cloud storage with no egress fees and predictable pricing.

## Schema

```yaml {1,3}
- name: <string>
  description: <string>
  type: wasabis3
  pipelines: <pipeline[]>
  status: <boolean>
  properties:
    key: <string>
    secret: <string>
    region: <string>
    endpoint: <string>
    part_size: <numeric>
    bucket: <string>
    buckets:
      - bucket: <string>
        name: <string>
        format: <string>
        compression: <string>
        extension: <string>
        schema: <string>
    name: <string>
    format: <string>
    compression: <string>
    extension: <string>
    schema: <string>
    max_size: <numeric>
    batch_size: <numeric>
    timeout: <numeric>
    field_format: <string>
    interval: <string|numeric>
    cron: <string>
    debug:
      status: <boolean>
      dont_send_logs: <boolean>
```

## Configuration

The following fields are used to define the target:

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`name`|Y||Target name|
|`description`|N|-|Optional description|
|`type`|Y||Must be `wasabis3`|
|`pipelines`|N|-|Optional post-processor pipelines|
|`status`|N|`true`|Enable/disable the target|

### Wasabi Hot Cloud Storage Credentials

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`key`|Y|-|Wasabi access key ID|
|`secret`|Y|-|Wasabi secret access key|
|`region`|Y|-|Wasabi region (e.g., `us-east-1`, `eu-central-1`, `ap-northeast-1`)|
|`endpoint`|Y|-|Wasabi endpoint URL (format: `https://s3.<region>.wasabisys.com`)|

### Connection

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`part_size`|N|`5`|Multipart upload part size in megabytes (minimum 5MB)|
|`timeout`|N|`30`|Connection timeout in seconds|
|`field_format`|N|-|Data normalization format. See applicable <Topic id="normalization-mapping">Normalization</Topic> section|

### Files

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`bucket`|N*|-|Default Wasabi bucket name (used if `buckets` not specified)|
|`buckets`|N*|-|Array of bucket configurations for file distribution|
|`buckets.bucket`|Y|-|Wasabi bucket name|
|`buckets.name`|Y|-|File name template|
|`buckets.format`|N|`"json"`|Output format: `json`, `multijson`, `avro`, `parquet`|
|`buckets.compression`|N|-|Compression algorithm. See [Compression](#compression) below|
|`buckets.extension`|N|Matches `format`|File extension override|
|`buckets.schema`|N*|-|Schema definition file path (required for Avro and Parquet formats)|
|`name`|N|`"vmetric.{{.Timestamp}}.{{.Extension}}"`|Default file name template when `buckets` not used|
|`format`|N|`"json"`|Default output format when `buckets` not used|
|`compression`|N|-|Default compression when `buckets` not used|
|`extension`|N|Matches `format`|Default file extension when `buckets` not used|
|`schema`|N|-|Default schema path when `buckets` not used|
|`max_size`|N|`0`|Maximum file size in bytes before rotation|
|`batch_size`|N|`100000`|Maximum number of messages per file|

\* = Either `bucket` or `buckets` must be specified. When using `buckets`, schema is conditionally required for Avro and Parquet formats.

:::note
When `max_size` is reached, the current file is uploaded to Wasabi and a new file is created. For unlimited file size, set the field to `0`.
:::

### Scheduler

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`interval`|N|realtime|Execution frequency. See <Topic id="interval">Interval</Topic> for details|
|`cron`|N|-|Cron expression for scheduled execution. See <Topic id="cron">Cron</Topic> for details|

### Debug Options

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`debug.status`|N|`false`|Enable debug logging|
|`debug.dont_send_logs`|N|`false`|Process logs but don't send to target (testing)|

## Details

### Authentication

Requires Wasabi access credentials. Access keys can be created through the Wasabi Console under Access Keys. Sub-users can be created with specific permissions and bucket access for enhanced security.

### Endpoint Configuration

The endpoint URL follows the pattern `https://s3.<region>.wasabisys.com` where `<region>` is your chosen Wasabi region identifier. Each bucket is associated with a specific region.

### Available Regions

Wasabi Hot Cloud Storage is available in the following regions worldwide:

|Region Code|Location|
|---|---|
|`us-east-1`|US East (N. Virginia)|
|`us-east-2`|US East (N. Virginia)|
|`us-central-1`|US Central (Texas)|
|`us-west-1`|US West (Oregon)|
|`eu-central-1`|Europe (Amsterdam)|
|`eu-central-2`|Europe (Frankfurt)|
|`eu-west-1`|Europe (London)|
|`eu-west-2`|Europe (Paris)|
|`ap-northeast-1`|Asia Pacific (Tokyo)|
|`ap-northeast-2`|Asia Pacific (Osaka)|
|`ap-southeast-1`|Asia Pacific (Singapore)|
|`ap-southeast-2`|Asia Pacific (Sydney)|
|`ca-central-1`|Canada (Toronto)|

### File Formats

|Format|Description|
|---|---|
|`json`|Each log entry is written as a separate JSON line (JSONL format)|
|`multijson`|All log entries are written as a single JSON array|
|`avro`|Apache Avro format with schema|
|`parquet`|Apache Parquet columnar format with schema|

### Compression

Some formats support built-in compression to reduce storage costs and transfer times. When supported, compression is applied at the file/block level before upload.

|Format|Default|Compression Codecs|
|---|---|---|
|JSON|-|Not supported|
|MultiJSON|-|Not supported|
|Avro|`zstd`|`deflate`, `snappy`, `zstd`|
|Parquet|`zstd`|`gzip`, `snappy`, `zstd`, `brotli`, `lz4`|

### File Management

Files are rotated based on size (`max_size` parameter) or event count (`batch_size` parameter), whichever limit is reached first. Template variables in file names enable dynamic file naming for time-based partitioning.

### Templates

The following template variables can be used in file names:

|Variable|Description|Example|
|---|---|---|
|`{{.Year}}`|Current year|`2024`|
|`{{.Month}}`|Current month|`01`|
|`{{.Day}}`|Current day|`15`|
|`{{.Timestamp}}`|Current timestamp in nanoseconds|`1703688533123456789`|
|`{{.Format}}`|File format|`json`|
|`{{.Extension}}`|File extension|`json`|
|`{{.Compression}}`|Compression type|`zstd`|
|`{{.TargetName}}`|Target name|`my_logs`|
|`{{.TargetType}}`|Target type|`wasabis3`|
|`{{.Table}}`|Bucket name|`logs`|

### Multipart Upload

Large files automatically use multipart upload protocol with configurable part size (`part_size` parameter). Default 5MB part size balances upload efficiency and memory usage.

### Multiple Buckets

Single target can write to multiple Wasabi buckets with different configurations, enabling data distribution strategies (e.g., raw data to one bucket, processed data to another).

### Schema Requirements

Avro and Parquet formats require schema definition files. Schema files must be accessible at the path specified in the `schema` parameter during target initialization.

## Examples

### Basic Configuration

The minimum configuration for a JSON Wasabi target:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: basic_wasabi
    type: wasabis3
    properties:
      key: "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRST"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789ABCD"
      region: "us-east-1"
      endpoint: "https://s3.us-east-1.wasabisys.com"
      bucket: "datastream-logs"
```

### Multiple Buckets

Configuration for distributing data across multiple Wasabi buckets with different formats:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: multi_bucket_export
    type: wasabis3
    properties:
      key: "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRST"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789ABCD"
      region: "eu-central-1"
      endpoint: "https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com"
      buckets:
        - bucket: "raw-data-archive"
          name: "raw-{{.Year}}-{{.Month}}-{{.Day}}.json"
          format: "multijson"
          compression: "gzip"
        - bucket: "analytics-data"
          name: "analytics-{{.Year}}/{{.Month}}/{{.Day}}/data_{{.Timestamp}}.parquet"
          format: "parquet"
          schema: "<schema definition>"
          compression: "snappy"
```

### Parquet Format

Configuration for daily partitioned Parquet files:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: parquet_analytics
    type: wasabis3
    properties:
      key: "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRST"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789ABCD"
      region: "ap-northeast-1"
      endpoint: "https://s3.ap-northeast-1.wasabisys.com"
      bucket: "analytics-lake"
      name: "events/year={{.Year}}/month={{.Month}}/day={{.Day}}/part-{{.Timestamp}}.parquet"
      format: "parquet"
      schema: "<schema definition>"
      compression: "snappy"
      max_size: 536870912
```

### High Reliability

Configuration with enhanced settings:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: reliable_wasabi
    type: wasabis3
    pipelines:
      - checkpoint
    properties:
      key: "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRST"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789ABCD"
      region: "us-west-1"
      endpoint: "https://s3.us-west-1.wasabisys.com"
      bucket: "critical-logs"
      name: "logs-{{.Timestamp}}.json"
      format: "json"
      timeout: 60
      part_size: 10
```

### With Field Normalization

Using field normalization for standard format:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: normalized_wasabi
    type: wasabis3
    properties:
      key: "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRST"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789ABCD"
      region: "ap-southeast-1"
      endpoint: "https://s3.ap-southeast-1.wasabisys.com"
      bucket: "normalized-logs"
      name: "logs-{{.Timestamp}}.json"
      format: "json"
      field_format: "cim"
```

### Debug Configuration

Configuration with debugging enabled:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: debug_wasabi
    type: wasabis3
    properties:
      key: "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRST"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789ABCD"
      region: "us-east-2"
      endpoint: "https://s3.us-east-2.wasabisys.com"
      bucket: "test-logs"
      name: "test-{{.Timestamp}}.json"
      format: "json"
      debug:
        status: true
        dont_send_logs: true
```

### Cost-Optimized Archive

Configuration optimized for long-term storage with maximum cost efficiency:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: archive_wasabi
    type: wasabis3
    properties:
      key: "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRST"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789ABCD"
      region: "eu-west-1"
      endpoint: "https://s3.eu-west-1.wasabisys.com"
      bucket: "log-archive"
      name: "archive/{{.Year}}/{{.Month}}/logs-{{.Day}}.json"
      format: "json"
      compression: "zstd"
      max_size: 1073741824
```

### High-Volume Data Lake

Configuration for high-volume analytics data lake:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: data_lake_wasabi
    type: wasabis3
    properties:
      key: "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRST"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789ABCD"
      region: "us-central-1"
      endpoint: "https://s3.us-central-1.wasabisys.com"
      bucket: "enterprise-datalake"
      name: "data/year={{.Year}}/month={{.Month}}/day={{.Day}}/hour={{.Hour}}/{{.Timestamp}}.parquet"
      format: "parquet"
      schema: "<schema definition>"
      compression: "snappy"
      batch_size: 500000
      max_size: 2147483648
```

Commit message:

Enhance documentation for various cloud storage and analytics targets by adding detailed descriptions and clarifying configuration options for Databricks, Snowflake, Backblaze B2, Cloudflare R2, Wasabi, Google Cloud Storage, and IBM Cloud Object Storage.

docs/configuration/targets/cloud-storage/wasabi-cloud-storage.mdx, after:

# Wasabi Hot Cloud Storage

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Wasabi</span><span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Long Term Storage</span>

## Synopsis

Creates a target that writes log messages to Wasabi Hot Cloud Storage with support for various file formats and authentication methods. The target handles large file uploads efficiently with configurable rotation based on size or event count. Wasabi provides high-performance, cost-effective cloud storage with no egress fees and predictable pricing.

## Schema

```yaml {1,3}
- name: <string>
  description: <string>
  type: wasabis3
  pipelines: <pipeline[]>
  status: <boolean>
  properties:
    key: <string>
    secret: <string>
    region: <string>
    endpoint: <string>
    part_size: <numeric>
    bucket: <string>
    buckets:
      - bucket: <string>
        name: <string>
        format: <string>
        compression: <string>
        extension: <string>
        schema: <string>
    name: <string>
    format: <string>
    compression: <string>
    extension: <string>
    schema: <string>
    max_size: <numeric>
    batch_size: <numeric>
    timeout: <numeric>
    field_format: <string>
    interval: <string|numeric>
    cron: <string>
    debug:
      status: <boolean>
      dont_send_logs: <boolean>
```

## Configuration

The following fields are used to define the target:

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`name`|Y||Target name|
|`description`|N|-|Optional description|
|`type`|Y||Must be `wasabis3`|
|`pipelines`|N|-|Optional post-processor pipelines|
|`status`|N|`true`|Enable/disable the target|

### Wasabi Hot Cloud Storage Credentials

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`key`|Y|-|Wasabi access key ID|
|`secret`|Y|-|Wasabi secret access key|
|`region`|Y|-|Wasabi region (e.g., `us-east-1`, `eu-central-1`, `ap-northeast-1`)|
|`endpoint`|Y|-|Wasabi endpoint URL (format: `https://s3.<region>.wasabisys.com`)|

### Connection

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`part_size`|N|`5`|Multipart upload part size in megabytes (minimum 5MB)|
|`timeout`|N|`30`|Connection timeout in seconds|
|`field_format`|N|-|Data normalization format. See applicable <Topic id="normalization-mapping">Normalization</Topic> section|

### Files

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`bucket`|N*|-|Default Wasabi bucket name (used if `buckets` not specified)|
|`buckets`|N*|-|Array of bucket configurations for file distribution|
|`buckets.bucket`|Y|-|Wasabi bucket name|
|`buckets.name`|Y|-|File name template|
|`buckets.format`|N|`"json"`|Output format: `json`, `multijson`, `avro`, `parquet`|
|`buckets.compression`|N|-|Compression algorithm. See [Compression](#compression) below|
|`buckets.extension`|N|Matches `format`|File extension override|
|`buckets.schema`|N*|-|Schema definition file path (required for Avro and Parquet formats)|
|`name`|N|`"vmetric.{{.Timestamp}}.{{.Extension}}"`|Default file name template when `buckets` not used|
|`format`|N|`"json"`|Default output format when `buckets` not used|
|`compression`|N|-|Default compression when `buckets` not used|
|`extension`|N|Matches `format`|Default file extension when `buckets` not used|
|`schema`|N|-|Default schema path when `buckets` not used|
|`max_size`|N|`0`|Maximum file size in bytes before rotation|
|`batch_size`|N|`100000`|Maximum number of messages per file|

\* = Either `bucket` or `buckets` must be specified. When using `buckets`, schema is conditionally required for Avro and Parquet formats.

:::note
When `max_size` is reached, the current file is uploaded to Wasabi and a new file is created. For unlimited file size, set the field to `0`.
:::

### Scheduler

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`interval`|N|realtime|Execution frequency. See <Topic id="interval">Interval</Topic> for details|
|`cron`|N|-|Cron expression for scheduled execution. See <Topic id="cron">Cron</Topic> for details|

### Debug Options

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`debug.status`|N|`false`|Enable debug logging|
|`debug.dont_send_logs`|N|`false`|Process logs but don't send to target (testing)|

## Details

The Wasabi Hot Cloud Storage target provides high-performance cloud storage integration with comprehensive file format support. Wasabi is designed as a cost-effective alternative to traditional cloud storage with 80% lower pricing, no egress fees, and no API charges.

### Authentication

Requires Wasabi access credentials. Access keys can be created through the Wasabi Console under Access Keys. Sub-users can be created with specific permissions and bucket access for enhanced security.

### Endpoint Configuration

The endpoint URL follows the pattern `https://s3.<region>.wasabisys.com` where `<region>` is your chosen Wasabi region identifier. Each bucket is associated with a specific region.

### Available Regions

Wasabi Hot Cloud Storage is available in the following regions worldwide:

|Region Code|Location|
|---|---|
|`us-east-1`|US East (N. Virginia)|
|`us-east-2`|US East (N. Virginia)|
|`us-central-1`|US Central (Texas)|
|`us-west-1`|US West (Oregon)|
|`eu-central-1`|Europe (Amsterdam)|
|`eu-central-2`|Europe (Frankfurt)|
|`eu-west-1`|Europe (London)|
|`eu-west-2`|Europe (Paris)|
|`ap-northeast-1`|Asia Pacific (Tokyo)|
|`ap-northeast-2`|Asia Pacific (Osaka)|
|`ap-southeast-1`|Asia Pacific (Singapore)|
|`ap-southeast-2`|Asia Pacific (Sydney)|
|`ca-central-1`|Canada (Toronto)|

### File Formats

|Format|Description|
|---|---|
|`json`|Each log entry is written as a separate JSON line (JSONL format)|
|`multijson`|All log entries are written as a single JSON array|
|`avro`|Apache Avro format with schema|
|`parquet`|Apache Parquet columnar format with schema|

### Compression

Some formats support built-in compression to reduce storage costs and transfer times. When supported, compression is applied at the file/block level before upload.

|Format|Default|Compression Codecs|
|---|---|---|
|JSON|-|Not supported|
|MultiJSON|-|Not supported|
|Avro|`zstd`|`deflate`, `snappy`, `zstd`|
|Parquet|`zstd`|`gzip`, `snappy`, `zstd`, `brotli`, `lz4`|

### File Management

Files are rotated based on size (`max_size` parameter) or event count (`batch_size` parameter), whichever limit is reached first. Template variables in file names enable dynamic file naming for time-based partitioning.

### Templates

The following template variables can be used in file names:

|Variable|Description|Example|
|---|---|---|
|`{{.Year}}`|Current year|`2024`|
|`{{.Month}}`|Current month|`01`|
|`{{.Day}}`|Current day|`15`|
|`{{.Timestamp}}`|Current timestamp in nanoseconds|`1703688533123456789`|
|`{{.Format}}`|File format|`json`|
|`{{.Extension}}`|File extension|`json`|
|`{{.Compression}}`|Compression type|`zstd`|
|`{{.TargetName}}`|Target name|`my_logs`|
|`{{.TargetType}}`|Target type|`wasabis3`|
|`{{.Table}}`|Bucket name|`logs`|

### Multipart Upload

Large files automatically use multipart upload protocol with configurable part size (`part_size` parameter). Default 5MB part size balances upload efficiency and memory usage.

### Multiple Buckets

Single target can write to multiple Wasabi buckets with different configurations, enabling data distribution strategies (e.g., raw data to one bucket, processed data to another).

### Schema Requirements

Avro and Parquet formats require schema definition files. Schema files must be accessible at the path specified in the `schema` parameter during target initialization.

## Examples

### Basic Configuration

The minimum configuration for a JSON Wasabi target:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: basic_wasabi
    type: wasabis3
    properties:
      key: "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRST"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789ABCD"
      region: "us-east-1"
      endpoint: "https://s3.us-east-1.wasabisys.com"
      bucket: "datastream-logs"
```

### Multiple Buckets

Configuration for distributing data across multiple Wasabi buckets with different formats:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: multi_bucket_export
    type: wasabis3
    properties:
      key: "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRST"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789ABCD"
      region: "eu-central-1"
      endpoint: "https://s3.eu-central-1.wasabisys.com"
      buckets:
        - bucket: "raw-data-archive"
          name: "raw-{{.Year}}-{{.Month}}-{{.Day}}.json"
          format: "multijson"
          compression: "gzip"
        - bucket: "analytics-data"
          name: "analytics-{{.Year}}/{{.Month}}/{{.Day}}/data_{{.Timestamp}}.parquet"
          format: "parquet"
          schema: "<schema definition>"
          compression: "snappy"
```

### Parquet Format

Configuration for daily partitioned Parquet files:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: parquet_analytics
    type: wasabis3
    properties:
      key: "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRST"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789ABCD"
      region: "ap-northeast-1"
      endpoint: "https://s3.ap-northeast-1.wasabisys.com"
      bucket: "analytics-lake"
      name: "events/year={{.Year}}/month={{.Month}}/day={{.Day}}/part-{{.Timestamp}}.parquet"
      format: "parquet"
      schema: "<schema definition>"
      compression: "snappy"
      max_size: 536870912
```

### High Reliability

Configuration with enhanced settings:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: reliable_wasabi
    type: wasabis3
    pipelines:
      - checkpoint
    properties:
      key: "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRST"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789ABCD"
      region: "us-west-1"
      endpoint: "https://s3.us-west-1.wasabisys.com"
      bucket: "critical-logs"
      name: "logs-{{.Timestamp}}.json"
      format: "json"
      timeout: 60
      part_size: 10
```

### With Field Normalization

Using field normalization for standard format:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: normalized_wasabi
    type: wasabis3
    properties:
      key: "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRST"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789ABCD"
      region: "ap-southeast-1"
      endpoint: "https://s3.ap-southeast-1.wasabisys.com"
      bucket: "normalized-logs"
      name: "logs-{{.Timestamp}}.json"
      format: "json"
      field_format: "cim"
```

### Debug Configuration

Configuration with debugging enabled:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: debug_wasabi
    type: wasabis3
    properties:
      key: "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRST"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789ABCD"
      region: "us-east-2"
      endpoint: "https://s3.us-east-2.wasabisys.com"
      bucket: "test-logs"
      name: "test-{{.Timestamp}}.json"
      format: "json"
      debug:
        status: true
        dont_send_logs: true
```

### Cost-Optimized Archive

Configuration optimized for long-term storage with maximum cost efficiency:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: archive_wasabi
    type: wasabis3
    properties:
      key: "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRST"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789ABCD"
      region: "eu-west-1"
      endpoint: "https://s3.eu-west-1.wasabisys.com"
      bucket: "log-archive"
      name: "archive/{{.Year}}/{{.Month}}/logs-{{.Day}}.json"
      format: "json"
      compression: "zstd"
      max_size: 1073741824
```

### High-Volume Data Lake

Configuration for high-volume analytics data lake:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: data_lake_wasabi
    type: wasabis3
    properties:
      key: "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRST"
      secret: "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789ABCD"
      region: "us-central-1"
      endpoint: "https://s3.us-central-1.wasabisys.com"
      bucket: "enterprise-datalake"
      name: "data/year={{.Year}}/month={{.Month}}/day={{.Day}}/hour={{.Hour}}/{{.Timestamp}}.parquet"
      format: "parquet"
      schema: "<schema definition>"
      compression: "snappy"
      batch_size: 500000
      max_size: 2147483648
```
