docs/getting-started/examples/user-notes.mdx, before:

---
pagination_prev: null
sidebar_label: User Notes
---

# Examples: User Notes

This chapter is intended to introduce you to the functionality of **Directory** by way providing of simple, illustrative examples.

The use cases provided are indeed simple in order not to confuse the uninitiated. However, there are a few details you have be aware of or keep in mind while carrying out the step-by-step procedures.

## Configuration Files

To configure telemetry streams, **DataStream** uses YAML files.

:::caution
On **Windows**, make sure file extensions are visible. To check this, go to **File Explorer** and select **View > Show > File name extensions**.

This is to avoid surprises like the system adding another extension to your YAML file's extension, e.g. `file.yml.txt`, in which case **VirtualMetric** applications will not be able to recognize them.
:::

**Director** parses all YAML files found under the `<vm_root>/config` folder and runs them. It ignores the filenames you use since that is only for your convenience: i.e. to organize your components as you see fit.

:::note
For more details of the management of configuration files, review <Topic id="configuration-overview-yaml">**this section**</Topic>.
:::

## Working Directory 

For our purposes, and to keep things simple, we will be using the following folder as our working directory:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="powershell" label="PowerShell" default>
    ```powershell
    New-Item -Path <vm_root>\config\Examples -ItemType Folder
    ```
</TabItem>    
<TabItem value="bash" label="Bash">
    ```bash
    mkdir <vm_root>/config/Examples
    ```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

We will be placing all our configuration and data source files needed for the examples in this folder. We will also specify our output files to be created here.

:::caution
For the sanity of the example runs, make sure there are no YAML files under the `config` directory (except for `vmetric.yml`) and its subfolders. 

There will be files placed under `config` by default during an automated installation. Make a backup of the `config` folder, and then remove those files.

The only YAML files present throughout each example section should be those we deliberately created and place under our working directory.
:::

## Message Sender

In our examples, we will be handling log emssages, and we will have to send those messages by some mechanism. For that purpose, we will be using the generator mode of **Director**.

The generator mode needs to be run on a separate terminal, and is called like this:

> `.\vmetric-director -generator -now -count 10 -address ...`

You are of course free to use some other traditional tool&mdash;such as `logger` for **Unix**-based on platforms. Only make sure that it is not invasive, and only sends messages to the listeners on specific ports.

## Logging Setup

Finally, a simple logging setup is in order for you to be able to check the status of your runs.

* Go to `<vm_root>`, i.e. the folder where you have placed **VirtualMetric**
* Find the `config` directory, which is directly under it
* Open the file named `vmetric.yml`, -or- create it if it doesn't exist
* Make sure the settings in it match the following, -or- add them to the newly created one:

    ```yaml
    debug:
      log:
        status: true
      level: 4
      console:
        status: true
    ```

:::info
Level `4` indicates that only error messages will be logged.
:::

**Director** will generate the log of your runs and place it in the following directory:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="powershell" label="PowerShell" default>
    ```powershell
    <vm_root>\storage\logs\
    ```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="bash" label="Bash">
    ```bash
    <vm_root>/storage/logs/
    ```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::note
Deleting the generated file is harmless. So long as the above debugging setting remains, it will be re-created with each run if there are any errors.
:::

---

## Examples

You can now proceed to the examples to explore the basics of configuring telemetry flows and see **Director** in action.

- <Topic id="example-ingesting">**Example: Ingesting Data**</Topic> - Configure your first device to receive streaming data

- <Topic id="example-secure-ingestion">**Example: Secure Ingestion**</Topic> - Reconfigure your device to receive streaming data securely

- <Topic id="example-forwarding">**Example: Forwarding Data**</Topic> - Configure your first target to send streaming data

- [**Example: Reading JSON With a Pipeline**](./example-reading-json-with-a-pipeline.mdx) - Configure your first pipeline to receive and process data

- <Topic id="example-syslog-to-json">**Example: A Syslog-To-JSON Data Stream**</Topic> - A full, end-to-end data stream in action

Commit message:

Added Getting Started Agent tutorials

docs/getting-started/examples/user-notes.mdx, after:

---
pagination_prev: null
sidebar_label: User Notes
---

# Examples: User Notes

This chapter is intended to introduce you to the functionality of **Directory** by way providing of simple, illustrative examples.

The use cases provided are indeed simple in order not to confuse the uninitiated. However, there are a few details you have be aware of or keep in mind while carrying out the step-by-step procedures.

## Configuration Files

To configure telemetry streams, **DataStream** uses YAML files.

:::caution
On **Windows**, make sure file extensions are visible. To check this, go to **File Explorer** and select **View > Show > File name extensions**.

This is to avoid surprises like the system adding another extension to your YAML file's extension, e.g. `file.yml.txt`, in which case **VirtualMetric** applications will not be able to recognize them.
:::

**Director** parses all YAML files found under the `<vm_root>/config` folder and runs them. It ignores the filenames you use since that is only for your convenience: i.e. to organize your components as you see fit.

:::note
For more details of the management of configuration files, review <Topic id="configuration-overview-yaml">**this section**</Topic>.
:::

## Working Directory 

For our purposes, and to keep things simple, we will be using the following folder as our working directory:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="powershell" label="PowerShell" default>
    ```powershell
    New-Item -Path <vm_root>\config\Examples -ItemType Folder
    ```
</TabItem>    
<TabItem value="bash" label="Bash">
    ```bash
    mkdir <vm_root>/config/Examples
    ```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

We will be placing all our configuration and data source files needed for the examples in this folder. We will also specify our output files to be created here.

:::caution
For the sanity of the example runs, make sure there are no YAML files under the `config` directory (except for `vmetric.yml`) and its subfolders. 

There will be files placed under `config` by default during an automated installation. Make a backup of the `config` folder, and then remove those files.

The only YAML files present throughout each example section should be those we deliberately created and place under our working directory.
:::

## Message Sender

In our examples, we will be handling log emssages, and we will have to send those messages by some mechanism. For that purpose, we will be using the generator mode of **Director**.

The generator mode needs to be run on a separate terminal, and is called like this:

> `.\vmetric-director -generator -now -count 10 -address ...`

You are of course free to use some other traditional tool&mdash;such as `logger` for **Unix**-based on platforms. Only make sure that it is not invasive, and only sends messages to the listeners on specific ports.

## Logging Setup

Finally, a simple logging setup is in order for you to be able to check the status of your runs.

* Go to `<vm_root>`, i.e. the folder where you have placed **VirtualMetric**
* Find the `config` directory, which is directly under it
* Open the file named `vmetric.yml`, -or- create it if it doesn't exist
* Make sure the settings in it match the following, -or- add them to the newly created one:

    ```yaml
    debug:
      log:
        status: true
      level: 4
      console:
        status: true
    ```

:::info
Level `4` indicates that only error messages will be logged.
:::

**Director** will generate the log of your runs and place it in the following directory:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="powershell" label="PowerShell" default>
    ```powershell
    <vm_root>\storage\logs\
    ```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="bash" label="Bash">
    ```bash
    <vm_root>/storage/logs/
    ```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::note
Deleting the generated file is harmless. So long as the above debugging setting remains, it will be re-created with each run if there are any errors.
:::

---

## Examples

You can now proceed to the examples to explore the basics of configuring telemetry flows.

See **Director** in action:

- <Topic id="example-ingesting">**Example: Ingesting Data**</Topic> - Configure your first device to receive streaming data

- <Topic id="example-secure-ingestion">**Example: Secure Ingestion**</Topic> - Reconfigure your device to receive streaming data securely

- <Topic id="example-forwarding">**Example: Forwarding Data**</Topic> - Configure your first target to send streaming data

- [**Example: Reading JSON With a Pipeline**](./example-reading-json-with-a-pipeline.mdx) - Configure your first pipeline to receive and process data

- <Topic id="example-syslog-to-json">**Example: A Syslog-To-JSON Data Stream**</Topic> - A full, end-to-end data stream in action

See **Agent** in action:

- <Topic id="example-centralized-monitoring">**Example: Centralized Monitoring with Agent**</Topic> - Configure your first device to receive streaming data

- <Topic id="example-process-management">**Example: Process Management with Agent Supervisor**</Topic> - Reconfigure your device to receive streaming data securely
