docs/configuration/targets/azure/azure-blob-storage.mdx, before:

# Azure Blob Storage

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Microsoft Azure</span><span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Long Term Storage</span>

## Synopsis

Creates a target that writes log messages to _Azure Blob Storage_ with support for various file formats, authentication methods, and retry mechanisms. Inherits file format capabilities from the base file target.

## Schema

```yaml {1,3}
- name: <string>
  description: <string>
  type: azblob
  pipelines: <pipeline[]>
  status: <boolean>
  properties:
    account: <string>
    tenant_id: <string>
    client_id: <string>
    client_secret: <string>
    container: <string>
    name: <string>
    format: <string>
    extension: <string>
    compression: <string>
    schema: <string>
    field_format: <string>
    no_buffer: <boolean>
    timeout: <numeric>
    max_size: <numeric>
    batch_size: <numeric>
    containers:
      - container: <string>
        name: <string>
        format: <string>
        compression: <string>
        extension: <string>
        schema: <string>
    function_app: <string>
    function_token: <string>
    interval: <string|numeric>
    cron: <string>
    debug:
      status: <boolean>
      dont_send_logs: <boolean>
```

## Configuration

The following fields are used to define the target:

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`name`|Y||Target name|
|`description`|N|-|Optional description|
|`type`|Y||Must be `azblob`|
|`pipelines`|N|-|Optional post-processor pipelines|
|`status`|N|`true`|Enable/disable the target|

### Azure

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`account`|Y||Azure storage account name|
|`tenant_id`|N*|-|Azure tenant ID (required unless using managed identity or function app)|
|`client_id`|N*|-|Azure client ID (required unless using managed identity or function app)|
|`client_secret`|N*|-|Azure client secret (required unless using managed identity or function app)|
|`container`|N**|`"vmetric"`|Default container name (acts as catch-all when `containers` is also specified)|

\* = Conditionally required. See authentication methods below.

\*\* = Required if you want a catch-all container for unmatched events, or if not using the `containers` array.

### Connection

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`timeout`|N|`30`|Connection timeout in seconds|
|`max_size`|N|`0`|Maximum file size in bytes before uploading|
|`batch_size`|N|`100000`|Maximum number of messages per file|

:::note
When `max_size` is reached, the current file is uploaded to blob storage and a new file is created. For unlimited file size, set the field to `0`.
:::

### Function App (Optional)

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`function_app`|N|-|Azure Function App URL for uploading blobs|
|`function_token`|N|-|Authentication token for the Function App|

If `function_app` is specified, the target will use the Function App to upload blobs instead of direct Azure Blob Storage SDK. This is useful for scenarios where direct access to storage is restricted.

### Files

The following fields can be used for files:

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`containers`|N*|-|Array of container configurations for file distribution|
|`containers.container`|Y|-|Container name|
|`containers.name`|Y|-|Blob name template|
|`containers.format`|N|`"json"`|Output format: `json`, `multijson`, `avro`, `parquet`|
|`containers.compression`|N|`"zstd"`|Compression algorithm. See [Compression](#compression) below|
|`containers.extension`|N|Matches `format`|File extension override|
|`containers.schema`|N**|-|Schema definition (required for Avro and Parquet formats)|
|`name`|N|`"vmetric.{{.Timestamp}}.{{.Extension}}"`|Default blob name template (used with `container` for catch-all)|
|`format`|N|`"json"`|Default output format (used with `container` for catch-all)|
|`extension`|N|Matches `format`|Default file extension (used with `container` for catch-all)|
|`compression`|N|`"zstd"`|Default compression algorithm (used with `container` for catch-all)|
|`schema`|N|-|Default schema definition (used with `container` for catch-all)|
|`no_buffer`|N|`false`|Disable write buffering|
|`field_format`|N|-|Data normalization format. See applicable <Topic id="pipelines-normalization-field-mapping">Normalization</Topic> section|

\* = Either `container` or `containers` must be specified.

\*\* = Conditionally required for Avro and Parquet formats when using `containers`.

### Scheduler

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`interval`|N|realtime|Execution frequency. See <Topic id="scheduling-interval-based">Interval</Topic> for details|
|`cron`|N|-|Cron expression for scheduled execution. See <Topic id="scheduling-cron-based">Cron</Topic> for details|

### Debug Options

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`debug.status`|N|`false`|Enable debug logging|
|`debug.dont_send_logs`|N|`false`|Process logs but don't send to target (testing)|

## Details

The Azure Blob Storage target supports writing to multiple containers with various file formats and schemas. The target provides enterprise-grade cloud storage integration with comprehensive file format support.

### Authentication Methods

The target supports multiple authentication methods:

**Service Principal Authentication**: Use `tenant_id`, `client_id`, and `client_secret` for explicit credential-based authentication.

**Managed Identity**: When deployed on Azure infrastructure (VMs, App Services, Container Instances), can leverage managed identity without explicit credentials.

**Function App**: When `function_app` is specified, authentication is handled through the Function App token, and direct storage credentials are not required.

### Container Routing

The target supports flexible container routing through pipeline configuration or explicit container settings:

**Configuration-based routing**: Define multiple containers in the target configuration, each with its own format, compression, and schema settings. Logs are routed to specific containers based on configuration.

**Pipeline-based routing**: Use the `container` field in pipeline processors to dynamically route logs to different containers at runtime. This enables conditional routing based on log content, source, or other attributes.

**Catch-all routing**: When a log doesn't match any specific container configuration or when no `container` field is set in the pipeline, logs are routed to the catch-all container (configured via the `container` field in target properties).

**Routing priority**:
1. Pipeline `container` field (highest priority)
2. Configured containers in `containers` array (if container name matches)
3. Default `container` field (catch-all, lowest priority)

This multi-level routing enables flexible data distribution strategies, such as routing different log types to different containers based on content analysis, source system, severity level, or any other runtime decision.

### File Formats

|Format|Description|
|---|---|
|`json`|Each log entry is written as a separate JSON line (JSONL format)|
|`multijson`|All log entries are written as a single JSON array|
|`avro`|Apache Avro format with schema and compression support|
|`parquet`|Apache Parquet columnar format with schema|

### Compression

Some formats support built-in compression to reduce storage costs and transfer times. When supported, compression is applied at the file/block level before upload.

|Format|Default|Compression Codecs|
|---|---|---|
|JSON|-|Not supported|
|MultiJSON|-|Not supported|
|Avro|`zstd`|`deflate`, `snappy`, `zstd`|
|Parquet|`zstd`|`gzip`, `snappy`, `zstd`, `brotli`, `lz4`|

### File Management

Files are rotated based on size (`max_size` parameter) or event count (`batch_size` parameter), whichever limit is reached first. Template variables in blob names enable dynamic file naming for time-based partitioning.

### Schema Support

The target supports the following built-in schema templates for structured data formats:
- `Syslog` - Standard schema for Syslog messages
- `CommonSecurityLog` - Schema compatible with Common Security Log Format (CSL)

You can also reference custom schema files by name (without the .json extension). The system will search for schema files in:
1. User schema directory: `<user-path>/schemas/`
2. Package schema directory: `<package-path>/schemas/`

Schema files are searched recursively in these directories, and filename matching is case-insensitive.

### Templates

The following template variables can be used in blob names:

|Variable|Description|Example|
|---|---|---|
|`{{.Year}}`|Current year|`2024`|
|`{{.Month}}`|Current month|`01`|
|`{{.Day}}`|Current day|`15`|
|`{{.Timestamp}}`|Current timestamp in nanoseconds|`1703688533123456789`|
|`{{.Format}}`|File format|`json`|
|`{{.Extension}}`|File extension|`json`|
|`{{.Compression}}`|Compression type|`zstd`|
|`{{.TargetName}}`|Target name|`my_logs`|
|`{{.TargetType}}`|Target type|`azblob`|
|`{{.Table}}`|Container name|`logs`|

### Multiple Containers

Single target can write to multiple Azure Blob Storage containers with different configurations, enabling data distribution strategies (e.g., raw data to one container, processed data to another).

:::note
Files with no messages (i.e. with `counter=0`) are automatically skipped during upload.
:::

## Examples

The following upload configurations are available.

### Basic Configuration

The minimum configuration for a JSON blob storage:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: basic_blob
    type: azblob
    properties:
      account: "mystorageaccount"
      tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_secret: "your-client-secret"
      container: "logs"
```

### Pipeline-Based Routing

Dynamic container routing using pipeline processors to analyze log content and route to appropriate containers:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: smart_routing_blob
    type: azblob
    pipelines:
      - dynamic_routing
    properties:
      account: "mystorageaccount"
      tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_secret: "your-client-secret"
      containers:
        - container: "security-events"
          name: "security_{{.Year}}_{{.Month}}_{{.Day}}.parquet"
          format: "parquet"
          schema: "CommonSecurityLog"
          compression: "zstd"
        - container: "application-events"
          name: "app_{{.Year}}_{{.Month}}_{{.Day}}.json"
          format: "json"
        - container: "system-events"
          name: "system_{{.Year}}_{{.Month}}_{{.Day}}.avro"
          format: "avro"
          schema: "Syslog"
          compression: "snappy"
      container: "other-events"
      name: "other_{{.Timestamp}}.json"
      format: "json"

pipelines:
  - name: dynamic_routing
    processors:
      - set:
          field: "_vmetric.container"
          value: "security-events"
          if: "ctx.event_type == 'security'"
      - set:
          field: "_vmetric.container"
          value: "application-events"
          if: "ctx.event_type == 'application'"
      - set:
          field: "_vmetric.container"
          value: "system-events"
          if: "ctx.event_type == 'system'"
```

### Multiple Containers with Catch-All

Configuration with multiple target containers and a catch-all default container:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: multi_container_blob
    type: azblob
    properties:
      account: "mystorageaccount"
      tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_secret: "your-client-secret"
      containers:
        - container: "security-logs"
          name: "security_{{.Year}}_{{.Month}}_{{.Day}}.parquet"
          format: "parquet"
          schema: "CommonSecurityLog"
          compression: "zstd"
        - container: "system-logs"
          name: "system_{{.Year}}_{{.Month}}_{{.Day}}.json"
          format: "json"
        - container: "application-logs"
          name: "app_{{.Year}}_{{.Month}}_{{.Day}}.avro"
          format: "avro"
          schema: "Syslog"
          compression: "snappy"
      container: "general-logs"
      name: "general_{{.Timestamp}}.json"
      format: "json"
      schema: "Syslog"
```

### Parquet Format

Configuration for daily partitioned Parquet files:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: parquet_blob
    type: azblob
    properties:
      account: "mystorageaccount"
      tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_secret: "your-client-secret"
      container: "logs"
      format: "parquet"
      compression: "zstd"
      name: "logs/year={{.Year}}/month={{.Month}}/day={{.Day}}/data_{{.Timestamp}}.parquet"
      schema: "Syslog"
      max_size: 536870912  # 512MB
```

### Avro with Custom Schema

Configuration for Avro format with a custom schema file:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: avro_blob
    type: azblob
    properties:
      account: "mystorageaccount"
      tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_secret: "your-client-secret"
      container: "logs"
      format: "avro"
      compression: "snappy"
      name: "logs_{{.Year}}_{{.Month}}_{{.Day}}.avro"
      schema: "MyCustomSchema"
```

### Function App Upload

Configuration using Azure Function App for uploading:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: function_blob
    type: azblob
    properties:
      account: "mystorageaccount"
      function_app: "https://my-function-app.azurewebsites.net/api/BlobStorage"
      function_token: "your-function-token"
      container: "logs"
```

### Debug Configuration

Configuration with debugging enabled:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: debug_blob
    type: azblob
    properties:
      account: "mystorageaccount"
      tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_secret: "your-client-secret"
      container: "logs"
      debug:
        status: true
        dont_send_logs: true
```

### High Volume with Batching

Configuration optimized for high-volume ingestion:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: high_volume_blob
    type: azblob
    properties:
      account: "mystorageaccount"
      tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_secret: "your-client-secret"
      container: "logs"
      format: "parquet"
      compression: "zstd"
      batch_size: 50000
      max_size: 536870912  # 512MB
      timeout: 60
```

Commit message:

Add Managed Identity support to Azure targets documentation

docs/configuration/targets/azure/azure-blob-storage.mdx, after:

import ManagedIdentity from '../_managed-identity.mdx';

# Azure Blob Storage

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Microsoft Azure</span><span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Long Term Storage</span>

## Synopsis

Creates a target that writes log messages to _Azure Blob Storage_ with support for various file formats, authentication methods, and retry mechanisms. Inherits file format capabilities from the base file target.

## Schema

```yaml {1,3}
- name: <string>
  description: <string>
  type: azblob
  pipelines: <pipeline[]>
  status: <boolean>
  properties:
    account: <string>
    tenant_id: <string>
    client_id: <string>
    client_secret: <string>
    container: <string>
    name: <string>
    format: <string>
    extension: <string>
    compression: <string>
    schema: <string>
    field_format: <string>
    no_buffer: <boolean>
    timeout: <numeric>
    max_size: <numeric>
    batch_size: <numeric>
    containers:
      - container: <string>
        name: <string>
        format: <string>
        compression: <string>
        extension: <string>
        schema: <string>
    function_app: <string>
    function_token: <string>
    interval: <string|numeric>
    cron: <string>
    debug:
      status: <boolean>
      dont_send_logs: <boolean>
```

## Configuration

The following fields are used to define the target:

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`name`|Y||Target name|
|`description`|N|-|Optional description|
|`type`|Y||Must be `azblob`|
|`pipelines`|N|-|Optional post-processor pipelines|
|`status`|N|`true`|Enable/disable the target|

### Azure

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`account`|Y||Azure storage account name|
|`tenant_id`|N*|-|Azure tenant ID (required unless using managed identity or function app)|
|`client_id`|N*|-|Azure client ID (required unless using managed identity or function app)|
|`client_secret`|N*|-|Azure client secret (required unless using managed identity or function app)|
|`container`|N**|`"vmetric"`|Default container name (acts as catch-all when `containers` is also specified)|

\* = Conditionally required. See authentication methods below.

\*\* = Required if you want a catch-all container for unmatched events, or if not using the `containers` array.

### Connection

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`timeout`|N|`30`|Connection timeout in seconds|
|`max_size`|N|`0`|Maximum file size in bytes before uploading|
|`batch_size`|N|`100000`|Maximum number of messages per file|

:::note
When `max_size` is reached, the current file is uploaded to blob storage and a new file is created. For unlimited file size, set the field to `0`.
:::

### Function App (Optional)

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`function_app`|N|-|Azure Function App URL for uploading blobs|
|`function_token`|N|-|Authentication token for the Function App|

If `function_app` is specified, the target will use the Function App to upload blobs instead of direct Azure Blob Storage SDK. This is useful for scenarios where direct access to storage is restricted.

### Files

The following fields can be used for files:

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`containers`|N*|-|Array of container configurations for file distribution|
|`containers.container`|Y|-|Container name|
|`containers.name`|Y|-|Blob name template|
|`containers.format`|N|`"json"`|Output format: `json`, `multijson`, `avro`, `parquet`|
|`containers.compression`|N|`"zstd"`|Compression algorithm. See [Compression](#compression) below|
|`containers.extension`|N|Matches `format`|File extension override|
|`containers.schema`|N**|-|Schema definition (required for Avro and Parquet formats)|
|`name`|N|`"vmetric.{{.Timestamp}}.{{.Extension}}"`|Default blob name template (used with `container` for catch-all)|
|`format`|N|`"json"`|Default output format (used with `container` for catch-all)|
|`extension`|N|Matches `format`|Default file extension (used with `container` for catch-all)|
|`compression`|N|`"zstd"`|Default compression algorithm (used with `container` for catch-all)|
|`schema`|N|-|Default schema definition (used with `container` for catch-all)|
|`no_buffer`|N|`false`|Disable write buffering|
|`field_format`|N|-|Data normalization format. See applicable <Topic id="pipelines-normalization-field-mapping">Normalization</Topic> section|

\* = Either `container` or `containers` must be specified.

\*\* = Conditionally required for Avro and Parquet formats when using `containers`.

### Scheduler

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`interval`|N|realtime|Execution frequency. See <Topic id="scheduling-interval-based">Interval</Topic> for details|
|`cron`|N|-|Cron expression for scheduled execution. See <Topic id="scheduling-cron-based">Cron</Topic> for details|

### Debug Options

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`debug.status`|N|`false`|Enable debug logging|
|`debug.dont_send_logs`|N|`false`|Process logs but don't send to target (testing)|

## Details

The Azure Blob Storage target supports writing to multiple containers with various file formats and schemas. The target provides enterprise-grade cloud storage integration with comprehensive file format support.

### Authentication Methods

The target supports multiple authentication methods:

**Service Principal Authentication**: Use `tenant_id`, `client_id`, and `client_secret` for explicit credential-based authentication.

**Function App Authentication**: When `function_app` is specified, authentication is handled through the Function App token, and direct storage credentials are not required.

<ManagedIdentity />

### Container Routing

The target supports flexible container routing through pipeline configuration or explicit container settings:

**Configuration-based routing**: Define multiple containers in the target configuration, each with its own format, compression, and schema settings. Logs are routed to specific containers based on configuration.

**Pipeline-based routing**: Use the `container` field in pipeline processors to dynamically route logs to different containers at runtime. This enables conditional routing based on log content, source, or other attributes.

**Catch-all routing**: When a log doesn't match any specific container configuration or when no `container` field is set in the pipeline, logs are routed to the catch-all container (configured via the `container` field in target properties).

**Routing priority**:
1. Pipeline `container` field (highest priority)
2. Configured containers in `containers` array (if container name matches)
3. Default `container` field (catch-all, lowest priority)

This multi-level routing enables flexible data distribution strategies, such as routing different log types to different containers based on content analysis, source system, severity level, or any other runtime decision.

### File Formats

|Format|Description|
|---|---|
|`json`|Each log entry is written as a separate JSON line (JSONL format)|
|`multijson`|All log entries are written as a single JSON array|
|`avro`|Apache Avro format with schema and compression support|
|`parquet`|Apache Parquet columnar format with schema|

### Compression

Some formats support built-in compression to reduce storage costs and transfer times. When supported, compression is applied at the file/block level before upload.

|Format|Default|Compression Codecs|
|---|---|---|
|JSON|-|Not supported|
|MultiJSON|-|Not supported|
|Avro|`zstd`|`deflate`, `snappy`, `zstd`|
|Parquet|`zstd`|`gzip`, `snappy`, `zstd`, `brotli`, `lz4`|

### File Management

Files are rotated based on size (`max_size` parameter) or event count (`batch_size` parameter), whichever limit is reached first. Template variables in blob names enable dynamic file naming for time-based partitioning.

### Schema Support

The target supports the following built-in schema templates for structured data formats:
- `Syslog` - Standard schema for Syslog messages
- `CommonSecurityLog` - Schema compatible with Common Security Log Format (CSL)

You can also reference custom schema files by name (without the .json extension). The system will search for schema files in:
1. User schema directory: `<user-path>/schemas/`
2. Package schema directory: `<package-path>/schemas/`

Schema files are searched recursively in these directories, and filename matching is case-insensitive.

### Templates

The following template variables can be used in blob names:

|Variable|Description|Example|
|---|---|---|
|`{{.Year}}`|Current year|`2024`|
|`{{.Month}}`|Current month|`01`|
|`{{.Day}}`|Current day|`15`|
|`{{.Timestamp}}`|Current timestamp in nanoseconds|`1703688533123456789`|
|`{{.Format}}`|File format|`json`|
|`{{.Extension}}`|File extension|`json`|
|`{{.Compression}}`|Compression type|`zstd`|
|`{{.TargetName}}`|Target name|`my_logs`|
|`{{.TargetType}}`|Target type|`azblob`|
|`{{.Table}}`|Container name|`logs`|

### Multiple Containers

Single target can write to multiple Azure Blob Storage containers with different configurations, enabling data distribution strategies (e.g., raw data to one container, processed data to another).

:::note
Files with no messages (i.e. with `counter=0`) are automatically skipped during upload.
:::

## Examples

The following upload configurations are available.

### Basic Configuration

The minimum configuration for a JSON blob storage:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: basic_blob
    type: azblob
    properties:
      account: "mystorageaccount"
      tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_secret: "your-client-secret"
      container: "logs"
```

### Managed Identity

Using Managed Identity for credential-free authentication on Azure infrastructure:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: managed_identity_blob
    type: azblob
    properties:
      account: "mystorageaccount"
      container: "logs"
      format: "json"
```

### Pipeline-Based Routing

Dynamic container routing using pipeline processors to analyze log content and route to appropriate containers:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: smart_routing_blob
    type: azblob
    pipelines:
      - dynamic_routing
    properties:
      account: "mystorageaccount"
      tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_secret: "your-client-secret"
      containers:
        - container: "security-events"
          name: "security_{{.Year}}_{{.Month}}_{{.Day}}.parquet"
          format: "parquet"
          schema: "CommonSecurityLog"
          compression: "zstd"
        - container: "application-events"
          name: "app_{{.Year}}_{{.Month}}_{{.Day}}.json"
          format: "json"
        - container: "system-events"
          name: "system_{{.Year}}_{{.Month}}_{{.Day}}.avro"
          format: "avro"
          schema: "Syslog"
          compression: "snappy"
      container: "other-events"
      name: "other_{{.Timestamp}}.json"
      format: "json"

pipelines:
  - name: dynamic_routing
    processors:
      - set:
          field: "_vmetric.container"
          value: "security-events"
          if: "ctx.event_type == 'security'"
      - set:
          field: "_vmetric.container"
          value: "application-events"
          if: "ctx.event_type == 'application'"
      - set:
          field: "_vmetric.container"
          value: "system-events"
          if: "ctx.event_type == 'system'"
```

### Multiple Containers with Catch-All

Configuration with multiple target containers and a catch-all default container:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: multi_container_blob
    type: azblob
    properties:
      account: "mystorageaccount"
      tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_secret: "your-client-secret"
      containers:
        - container: "security-logs"
          name: "security_{{.Year}}_{{.Month}}_{{.Day}}.parquet"
          format: "parquet"
          schema: "CommonSecurityLog"
          compression: "zstd"
        - container: "system-logs"
          name: "system_{{.Year}}_{{.Month}}_{{.Day}}.json"
          format: "json"
        - container: "application-logs"
          name: "app_{{.Year}}_{{.Month}}_{{.Day}}.avro"
          format: "avro"
          schema: "Syslog"
          compression: "snappy"
      container: "general-logs"
      name: "general_{{.Timestamp}}.json"
      format: "json"
      schema: "Syslog"
```

### Parquet Format

Configuration for daily partitioned Parquet files:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: parquet_blob
    type: azblob
    properties:
      account: "mystorageaccount"
      tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_secret: "your-client-secret"
      container: "logs"
      format: "parquet"
      compression: "zstd"
      name: "logs/year={{.Year}}/month={{.Month}}/day={{.Day}}/data_{{.Timestamp}}.parquet"
      schema: "Syslog"
      max_size: 536870912  # 512MB
```

### Avro with Custom Schema

Configuration for Avro format with a custom schema file:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: avro_blob
    type: azblob
    properties:
      account: "mystorageaccount"
      tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_secret: "your-client-secret"
      container: "logs"
      format: "avro"
      compression: "snappy"
      name: "logs_{{.Year}}_{{.Month}}_{{.Day}}.avro"
      schema: "MyCustomSchema"
```

### Function App Upload

Configuration using Azure Function App for uploading:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: function_blob
    type: azblob
    properties:
      account: "mystorageaccount"
      function_app: "https://my-function-app.azurewebsites.net/api/BlobStorage"
      function_token: "your-function-token"
      container: "logs"
```

### Debug Configuration

Configuration with debugging enabled:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: debug_blob
    type: azblob
    properties:
      account: "mystorageaccount"
      tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_secret: "your-client-secret"
      container: "logs"
      debug:
        status: true
        dont_send_logs: true
```

### High Volume with Batching

Configuration optimized for high-volume ingestion:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: high_volume_blob
    type: azblob
    properties:
      account: "mystorageaccount"
      tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
      client_secret: "your-client-secret"
      container: "logs"
      format: "parquet"
      compression: "zstd"
      batch_size: 50000
      max_size: 536870912  # 512MB
      timeout: 60
```
