docs/configuration/directors/introduction.mdx, before:

---
pagination_prev: null
sidebar_label: Introduction
---

# Directors: Introduction

Directors are the core data processing engines within the **DataStream** platform, responsible for collecting, processing, transforming, and routing security telemetry data from various sources to target destinations. They serve as the central orchestration layer that maintains data sovereignty by keeping sensitive information within your environment while providing centralized cloud-based management.

## What is a Director?

A Director is a lightweight, containerized service that acts as a secure data processing hub in your infrastructure. It connects securely to the **DataStream** cloud platform for configuration management while ensuring all sensitive security data remains within your controlled environment.

### Key Capabilities

A Director provides comprehensive data processing capabilities, ingesting security data from multiple sources including syslog, APIs, files, and databases. It applies real-time transformation and normalization using YAML-defined pipelines, supports multiple security schemas (ASIM, OCSF, ECS, CIM, UDM), and routes processed data to various destinations such as SIEM platforms, data lakes, and security tools.

From a security and compliance perspective, Directors maintain data sovereignty by processing all data locally. They establish outbound-only HTTPS connections to cloud management services, provide comprehensive audit logging and activity tracking, and support enterprise security requirements and compliance frameworks.

Directors are designed for scalability and reliability, offering horizontal scaling through clustering capabilities and high availability configurations for mission-critical environments. They provide resource-efficient processing with minimal infrastructure requirements and support automatic failover and load balancing in clustered deployments.

## Platform Management Options

**DataStream** provides two distinct management approaches for Directors, each designed for different organizational needs and security requirements:

### Self-Managed Directors

Self-Managed Directors provide complete control over the deployment and management of your data processing infrastructure. This option is ideal for organizations with specific security requirements or existing infrastructure management processes.

Self-Managed Directors give you full control over your deployment environment and configuration. You handle updates, patches, and maintenance directly, and can implement custom security controls and compliance configurations. This approach integrates with existing infrastructure monitoring and management tools, and supports air-gapped or restricted network environments.

**Suitable For:**
- Organizations with strict data governance requirements
- Environments with existing container orchestration systems
- Companies requiring custom security configurations
- Regulated industries with specific compliance needs

### Managed Directors (Enterprise Feature)

Managed Directors offer a fully-managed service where **VirtualMetric** handles the infrastructure management, monitoring, and maintenance of your Directors while still maintaining data sovereignty.

With Managed Directors, VirtualMetric handles automated deployment and configuration management, along with proactive monitoring and maintenance. You receive automatic updates and security patches, 24/7 support and incident response, and performance optimization with capacity planning.

:::info[Enterprise Feature]
Managed Directors are available as part of the Enterprise subscription.
:::

**Suitable For:**
- Organizations seeking reduced operational overhead
- Teams without dedicated infrastructure management resources
- Companies prioritizing time-to-value over operational control
- Environments requiring guaranteed SLA and support coverage

## Installation Types

Directors support different installation architectures to accommodate various operational requirements and scale needs:

### Standalone Installation

**Standalone** is the default installation type, designed for straightforward deployments where a single Director instance handles all data processing needs. This configuration offers simplified management, resource-efficient operation, and quick deployment and setup.

:::note[Standalone Limitations]
Standalone installations do not include built-in high availability or load balancing. A single Director instance represents a single point of failure, with limited horizontal scaling capabilities. Backup and disaster recovery procedures must be managed manually.
:::

**Recommended For:**
- Small to medium-scale deployments
- Development and testing environments
- Organizations with basic availability requirements
- Initial proof-of-concept implementations

### Clustered Installation (Enterprise Feature)

**Clustered** installations provide high availability and horizontal scaling capabilities through multiple Director instances working together. A cluster supports automatic load balancing, built-in failover and redundancy mechanisms, and horizontal scaling based on processing demands. Directors in a cluster share state management across nodes and distribute processing for improved performance.

Clustering eliminates single points of failure, improves processing capacity and throughput, and enables automatic recovery from node failures. Clusters scale dynamically based on data volume and provide enhanced monitoring and observability across all nodes.

:::info[Enterprise Feature]
Clustered installations are available as part of the Enterprise subscription.
:::

**Recommended For:**
- Mission-critical security data processing
- High-volume environments requiring guaranteed availability
- Organizations with strict SLA requirements
- Production deployments requiring enterprise-grade reliability

## Director Architecture and Data Flow

Directors operate as secure intermediaries between your security data sources and target destinations, implementing a data sovereignty model that keeps sensitive information within your controlled environment.

### Data Processing Architecture

The **Input Layer** handles multiple simultaneous data source connections through protocol-agnostic ingestion supporting Syslog, REST APIs, and file monitoring. It provides both real-time streaming and batch processing capabilities, with built-in buffering and queuing for reliability.

The **Processing Layer** executes YAML-defined transformation pipelines that perform multi-schema normalization and enrichment. This layer applies real-time data validation and quality checks, and enables custom logic implementation through processors.

The **Output Layer** manages multi-destination routing and delivery, adapting formats for different target systems. It handles delivery confirmation and retry mechanisms, with performance optimization tailored for various endpoint types.

### Security and Connectivity Model

Directors use an outbound-only communication model where they initiate all cloud platform connections. This design eliminates the need for inbound firewall rules. All cloud interactions use encrypted HTTPS communication with certificate-based authentication and authorization.

The architecture maintains strict data sovereignty: all security data processing occurs locally, and no sensitive data is transmitted to cloud services. Cloud synchronization is limited to configuration and metadata only. A complete audit trail supports compliance and governance requirements.

Commit message:

docs: update clustered deployment documentation and troubleshooting guidance

docs/configuration/directors/introduction.mdx, after:

---
pagination_prev: null
sidebar_label: Introduction
---

# Directors: Introduction

Directors are the core data processing engines within the **DataStream** platform, responsible for collecting, processing, transforming, and routing security telemetry data from various sources to target destinations. They serve as the central orchestration layer that maintains data sovereignty by keeping sensitive information within your environment while providing centralized cloud-based management.

## What is a Director?

A Director is a lightweight, containerized service that acts as a secure data processing hub in your infrastructure. It connects securely to the **DataStream** cloud platform for configuration management while ensuring all sensitive security data remains within your controlled environment.

### Key Capabilities

A Director provides comprehensive data processing capabilities, ingesting security data from multiple sources including syslog, APIs, files, and databases. It applies real-time transformation and normalization using YAML-defined pipelines, supports multiple security schemas (ASIM, OCSF, ECS, CIM, UDM), and routes processed data to various destinations such as SIEM platforms, data lakes, and security tools.

From a security and compliance perspective, Directors maintain data sovereignty by processing all data locally. They establish outbound-only HTTPS connections to cloud management services, provide comprehensive audit logging and activity tracking, and support enterprise security requirements and compliance frameworks.

Directors are designed for scalability and reliability, offering horizontal scaling through clustering capabilities and high availability configurations for mission-critical environments. They provide resource-efficient processing with minimal infrastructure requirements and support automatic failover and load balancing in clustered deployments.

## Platform Management Options

**DataStream** provides two distinct management approaches for Directors, each designed for different organizational needs and security requirements:

### Self-Managed Directors

Self-Managed Directors provide complete control over the deployment and management of your data processing infrastructure. This option is ideal for organizations with specific security requirements or existing infrastructure management processes.

Self-Managed Directors give you full control over your deployment environment and configuration. You handle updates, patches, and maintenance directly, and can implement custom security controls and compliance configurations. This approach integrates with existing infrastructure monitoring and management tools, and supports air-gapped or restricted network environments.

**Suitable For:**
- Organizations with strict data governance requirements
- Environments with existing container orchestration systems
- Companies requiring custom security configurations
- Regulated industries with specific compliance needs

### Managed Directors (Enterprise Feature)

Managed Directors offer a fully-managed service where **VirtualMetric** handles the infrastructure management, monitoring, and maintenance of your Directors while still maintaining data sovereignty.

With Managed Directors, VirtualMetric handles automated deployment and configuration management, along with proactive monitoring and maintenance. You receive automatic updates and security patches, 24/7 support and incident response, and performance optimization with capacity planning.

:::info[Enterprise Feature]
Managed Directors are available as part of the Enterprise subscription.
:::

**Suitable For:**
- Organizations seeking reduced operational overhead
- Teams without dedicated infrastructure management resources
- Companies prioritizing time-to-value over operational control
- Environments requiring guaranteed SLA and support coverage

## Installation Types

Directors support different installation architectures to accommodate various operational requirements and scale needs:

### Standalone Installation

**Standalone** is the default installation type, designed for straightforward deployments where a single Director instance handles all data processing needs. This configuration offers simplified management, resource-efficient operation, and quick deployment and setup.

:::note[Standalone Limitations]
Standalone installations do not include built-in high availability or load balancing. A single Director instance represents a single point of failure, with limited horizontal scaling capabilities. Backup and disaster recovery procedures must be managed manually.
:::

**Recommended For:**
- Small to medium-scale deployments
- Development and testing environments
- Organizations with basic availability requirements
- Initial proof-of-concept implementations

### Clustered Installation (Enterprise Feature)

**Clusters** provide high availability by grouping multiple Directors together for automatic failover. When one Director in a cluster fails, the remaining Directors take over its workload, ensuring continuous telemetry processing. Agents and Devices connect to the cluster as a whole rather than to individual Directors, so operations continue uninterrupted as long as at least one Director remains healthy.

To create a cluster, you first deploy Directors as standalone instances, then group them through the **Clusters** tab in the Directors management interface. A cluster requires a minimum of 3 Directors, and the count must be an odd number (3, 5, 7...) to maintain quorum and prevent split-brain scenarios. Routes configured for a cluster are automatically replicated across all member Directors.

:::info[Enterprise Feature]
Clustered installations are available as part of the Enterprise subscription.
:::

**Recommended For:**
- Mission-critical security data processing
- High-volume environments requiring guaranteed availability
- Organizations with strict SLA requirements
- Production deployments requiring enterprise-grade reliability

## Director Architecture and Data Flow

Directors operate as secure intermediaries between your security data sources and target destinations, implementing a data sovereignty model that keeps sensitive information within your controlled environment.

### Data Processing Architecture

The **Input Layer** handles multiple simultaneous data source connections through protocol-agnostic ingestion supporting Syslog, REST APIs, and file monitoring. It provides both real-time streaming and batch processing capabilities, with built-in buffering and queuing for reliability.

The **Processing Layer** executes YAML-defined transformation pipelines that perform multi-schema normalization and enrichment. This layer applies real-time data validation and quality checks, and enables custom logic implementation through processors.

The **Output Layer** manages multi-destination routing and delivery, adapting formats for different target systems. It handles delivery confirmation and retry mechanisms, with performance optimization tailored for various endpoint types.

### Security and Connectivity Model

Directors use an outbound-only communication model where they initiate all cloud platform connections. This design eliminates the need for inbound firewall rules. All cloud interactions use encrypted HTTPS communication with certificate-based authentication and authorization.

The architecture maintains strict data sovereignty: all security data processing occurs locally, and no sensitive data is transmitted to cloud services. Cloud synchronization is limited to configuration and metadata only. A complete audit trail supports compliance and governance requirements.
