docs/configuration/directors/troubleshooting.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Troubleshooting
---

# Directors: Troubleshooting

This guide provides solutions to common Director deployment and operational issues. Issues are organized by category with step-by-step resolution procedures.

## Installation Issues

### Director Service Fails to Start

**Symptoms:**
- Service does not start after installation
- Error messages during service startup
- Director not appearing in management console

**Resolution Steps:**

1. **Check System Requirements**
   - Verify supported operating system version
   - Ensure minimum hardware requirements are met
   - Confirm administrator/root privileges for installation

2. **Permission Validation**
   - Ensure installation user has sufficient privileges
   - Check file and directory permissions in installation path
   - Verify service account permissions if using dedicated account

3. **Port Availability**
   - Confirm required ports are not in use by other services
   - Check local firewall settings
   - Identify port conflicts using network tools

4. **Review Service Logs**
   - Check installation script output for error messages
   - Review system event logs for service startup failures
   - Examine Director logs for specific error details

**Diagnostic Commands:**

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="powershell" label="PowerShell" default>
    ```powershell
    # Check service status
    Get-Service vmetric-director

    # Check port usage
    Get-NetTCPConnection -LocalPort 443 -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue
    netstat -an | Select-String ":443"

    # View service events
    Get-EventLog -LogName System -Source "Service Control Manager" -Newest 20 |
      Where-Object { $_.Message -like "*vmetric*" }
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="bash" label="Bash">
    ```bash
    # Check service status
    systemctl status vmetric-director

    # Check port usage
    netstat -tulpn | grep :443
    ss -tulpn | grep :443

    # View service logs
    journalctl -u vmetric-director -n 50
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### VMMQ Connection Not Initialized

**Symptoms:**
- Log message: "vmmq connection is not initialized"
- Director starts but cannot process data
- Internal communication failures

**Resolution Steps:**

1. **Verify NATS JetStream Configuration**
   - Check that NATS server is running and accessible
   - Verify JetStream is enabled in the configuration
   - Confirm storage paths exist and have correct permissions

2. **Check Storage Directory**
   - Verify `<vm_root>/Director/storage/nats/` directory exists
   - Ensure adequate disk space for JetStream storage
   - Check directory permissions

3. **Review Configuration File**
   - Validate YAML syntax in `vmetric.yml`
   - Confirm VMMQ settings are correctly specified
   - Check for configuration file corruption

## Connection Issues

### Director Cannot Connect to Cloud Platform

**Symptoms:**
- Director status shows "Not Connected" in the web dashboard
- Connection verification fails during setup
- Timeout errors in Director logs

**Resolution Steps:**

1. **Identify Your Regional Endpoint**

   Your Director connects to the same regional cloud platform where you created it. To identify your region, check the URL in your browser when logged into the VirtualMetric dashboard:

   |Region|Endpoint|
   |--:|:--|
   |Europe|`https://app.eu-west.cloud.virtualmetric.com`|
   |US|`https://app.us-east.cloud.virtualmetric.com`|
   |Australia| `https://app.aus-east.cloud.virtualmetric.com`|

   :::info
   If you need to switch regions, log out and [select a different region](https://www.virtualmetric.com/select-your-region-login/).
   :::

2. **Validate Network Connectivity**
   - Ensure port `443` is open for outbound HTTPS connections from the Director host
   - Verify DNS resolution is working properly
   - Test connectivity to your regional endpoint using the diagnostic commands below

3. **Check Firewall Configuration**
   - Allow outbound connections to `*.cloud.virtualmetric.com` domains
   - Ensure no SSL/TLS inspection is blocking certificate validation
   - Verify proxy configurations if applicable

4. **Validate API Key**
   - Confirm the installation script was copied and executed correctly
   - Check for extra spaces or line breaks if you manually edited the script
   - Regenerate the API key from the Director's Connection tab in the dashboard if corruption is suspected

5. **Review System Time**
   - Ensure system clock is synchronized
   - Use NTP to maintain accurate time synchronization

   :::warning
   TLS certificate validation requires accurate system time. A clock skew of more than a few minutes can cause silent connection failures.
   :::

**Diagnostic Commands:**

Use your regional endpoint (identified in step 1) in the following commands:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="powershell" label="PowerShell" default>
    ```powershell
    # Set your regional endpoint
    $region = "eu-west"  # Change to: us-east or aus-east

    # Test DNS resolution
    Resolve-DnsName "app.$region.cloud.virtualmetric.com"

    # Check outbound connectivity
    Test-NetConnection -ComputerName "app.$region.cloud.virtualmetric.com" -Port 443

    # Verify TLS connectivity
    Invoke-WebRequest -Uri "https://app.$region.cloud.virtualmetric.com" -Method Head -UseBasicParsing
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="bash" label="Bash">
    ```bash
    # Set your regional endpoint
    REGION="eu-west"  # Change to: us-east or aus-east

    # Test DNS resolution
    nslookup "app.$REGION.cloud.virtualmetric.com"

    # Check outbound connectivity
    nc -zv "app.$REGION.cloud.virtualmetric.com" 443

    # Verify TLS connectivity
    curl -I "https://app.$REGION.cloud.virtualmetric.com"
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Connection Drops Intermittently

**Symptoms:**
- Director alternates between Connected and Not Connected states
- Periodic timeout errors in logs
- Data processing interruptions

**Resolution Steps:**

1. **Network Stability Check**
   - Monitor network latency and packet loss to your regional endpoint
   - Verify network equipment stability
   - Check for bandwidth limitations or throttling

2. **Resource Monitoring**
   - Ensure adequate CPU and memory resources
   - Monitor disk I/O performance
   - Check for resource contention with other services

3. **Proxy Configuration**
   - Verify proxy server stability and configuration
   - Check proxy authentication credentials
   - Consider bypassing proxy for VirtualMetric endpoints

## Data Processing Issues

### Director Not Receiving Data

**Symptoms:**
- No data appearing in target destinations
- Zero throughput metrics in monitoring
- Source systems showing successful transmission

**Resolution Steps:**

1. **Source Configuration Verification**
   - Confirm correct Director IP address in source system configuration
   - Verify port numbers match between source and Director
   - Check protocol settings (TCP/UDP for syslog, HTTP/HTTPS for APIs)

2. **Network Connectivity Testing**
   - Test connection from source system to Director
   - Verify routing and firewall rules allow traffic
   - Use packet capture tools to confirm data transmission

3. **Director Input Configuration**
   - Review device configuration in Director settings
   - Verify enabled protocols and listening ports
   - Check for configuration syntax errors

4. **Log Analysis**
   - Examine Director logs for input processing errors
   - Check for data parsing or validation failures
   - Review error messages for specific issues

**Diagnostic Commands:**

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="powershell" label="PowerShell" default>
    ```powershell
    # Test syslog connectivity (UDP)
    $udpClient = New-Object System.Net.Sockets.UdpClient
    $bytes = [Text.Encoding]::ASCII.GetBytes("<14>Test message from PowerShell")
    $udpClient.Send($bytes, $bytes.Length, "<director_ip>", 514)
    $udpClient.Close()

    # Check listening ports
    Get-NetTCPConnection -LocalPort 514 -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue
    Get-NetUDPEndpoint -LocalPort 514 -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="bash" label="Bash">
    ```bash
    # Test syslog connectivity
    logger -n <director_ip> -P 514 "Test message"

    # Check listening ports
    netstat -tulpn | grep <director_ip>

    # Monitor network traffic
    tcpdump -i any port 514
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Router Queue Errors

**Symptoms:**
- Log message: "There is no available log file for [logtype] in the router queue"
- Data processing appears stalled
- Empty storage/logs directory

**Resolution Steps:**

1. **Verify Storage Configuration**
   - Check that `<vm_root>/Director/storage/` directory exists
   - Ensure subdirectories (data, logs, queue, sender) are present
   - Verify write permissions on storage directories

2. **Check Disk Space**
   - Ensure adequate free disk space for queue operations
   - Monitor disk usage during high-volume periods
   - Configure log rotation if disk space is limited

   :::warning
   If disk space is exhausted, queued data may be lost. Monitor storage usage proactively in high-volume environments.
   :::

3. **Review Route Configuration**
   - Verify routes are properly configured and enabled
   - Check that devices and targets are correctly linked
   - Validate pipeline configuration syntax

### Data Processing Errors

**Symptoms:**
- Partial data processing with error messages
- Data transformation failures
- Inconsistent output formatting

**Resolution Steps:**

1. **Pipeline Configuration Review**
   - Validate YAML syntax in processing pipelines
   - Check field mappings and transformation rules
   - Verify regular expressions and parsing patterns

2. **Data Format Validation**
   - Examine sample input data for format consistency
   - Check for unexpected characters or encoding issues
   - Verify timestamp formats match expected patterns

3. **Resource Monitoring**
   - Monitor CPU and memory usage during processing
   - Check for disk space availability
   - Ensure adequate processing capacity for data volume

## Performance Issues

### High Resource Usage

**Symptoms:**
- Excessive CPU or memory consumption
- System performance degradation
- Out of memory errors

**Resolution Steps:**

1. **Configuration Tuning**
   - Adjust buffer sizes and queue lengths
   - Optimize processing batch sizes
   - Configure appropriate timeout values

2. **Pipeline Optimization**
   - Identify resource-intensive transformation operations
   - Optimize data parsing and enrichment logic
   - Consider sampling for high-volume data streams

3. **System Monitoring**
   - Implement comprehensive resource monitoring
   - Set up alerts for resource threshold breaches
   - Plan capacity upgrades based on usage patterns

### Slow Data Processing

**Symptoms:**
- High latency between data ingestion and output
- Growing backlog of unprocessed data
- Timeout errors in processing pipeline

**Resolution Steps:**

1. **Resource Optimization**
   - Increase CPU and memory allocation to Director
   - Monitor resource utilization patterns
   - Consider vertical scaling for improved performance

2. **Pipeline Efficiency**
   - Review processing pipeline for optimization opportunities
   - Simplify complex transformation rules where possible
   - Optimize regular expressions and parsing logic

3. **Output Destination Performance**
   - Check target system capacity and response times
   - Verify network connectivity to destination systems
   - Consider batch processing for improved throughput

## Log Analysis

### Director Log Locations

**Windows:**
```
<vm_root>\Director\storage\logs\
```

**Linux:**
```
<vm_root>/Director/storage/logs/
```

### Common Log Messages

| Message | Meaning | Action |
|:--------|:--------|:-------|
| `vmmq connection is not initialized` | NATS JetStream not available | Check NATS configuration and storage |
| `Can not update device state` | Device status update failed | Verify VMMQ connectivity |
| `Health check failed` | Device collector unhealthy | Service will auto-restart collector |
| `Can not fetch messages` | Message queue read error | Check NATS server health |
| `Failed to start VMMQ server` | Internal messaging startup failed | Review configuration and permissions |

:::note
The Director service includes automatic recovery for transient failures. Messages like "Health check failed" are often followed by automatic collector restart without manual intervention.
:::

### Log Analysis Commands

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="powershell" label="PowerShell" default>
    ```powershell
    # Monitor real-time logs
    Get-Content "<vm_root>\Director\storage\logs\director.log" -Wait -Tail 50

    # Search for errors
    Select-String -Path "<vm_root>\Director\storage\logs\*.log" -Pattern "error|failed" -AllMatches
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="bash" label="Bash">
    ```bash
    # Monitor real-time logs
    tail -f <vm_root>/Director/storage/logs/director.log

    # Search for errors
    grep -i "error\|failed" <vm_root>/Director/storage/logs/*.log
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Support and Escalation

When standard troubleshooting procedures don't resolve issues:

1. **Gather Diagnostic Information**
   - Collect relevant log files and error messages
   - Document system configuration and environment details
   - Note specific symptoms and reproduction steps

2. **Contact Support**
   - Include Director version (`vmetric-director -version`)
   - Provide timeline of when issues first occurred

   :::tip
   Submit support tickets at [support.virtualmetric.com](https://support.virtualmetric.com). Include log excerpts and configuration snippets to expedite resolution.
   :::

3. **Emergency Escalation**
   - For critical production issues, use emergency contact procedures
   - Follow your organization's incident management processes

Commit message:

docs: update clustered deployment documentation and troubleshooting guidance

docs/configuration/directors/troubleshooting.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Troubleshooting
---

# Directors: Troubleshooting

This guide provides solutions to common Director deployment and operational issues. Issues are organized by category with step-by-step resolution procedures.

## Installation Issues

### Director Service Fails to Start

**Symptoms:**
- Service does not start after installation
- Error messages during service startup
- Director not appearing in management console

**Resolution Steps:**

1. **Check System Requirements**
   - Verify supported operating system version
   - Ensure minimum hardware requirements are met
   - Confirm administrator/root privileges for installation

2. **Permission Validation**
   - Ensure installation user has sufficient privileges
   - Check file and directory permissions in installation path
   - Verify service account permissions if using dedicated account

3. **Port Availability**
   - Confirm required ports are not in use by other services
   - Check local firewall settings
   - Identify port conflicts using network tools

4. **Review Service Logs**
   - Check installation script output for error messages
   - Review system event logs for service startup failures
   - Examine Director logs for specific error details

**Diagnostic Commands:**

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="powershell" label="PowerShell" default>
    ```powershell
    # Check service status
    Get-Service vmetric-director

    # Check port usage
    Get-NetTCPConnection -LocalPort 443 -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue
    netstat -an | Select-String ":443"

    # View service events
    Get-EventLog -LogName System -Source "Service Control Manager" -Newest 20 |
      Where-Object { $_.Message -like "*vmetric*" }
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="bash" label="Bash">
    ```bash
    # Check service status
    systemctl status vmetric-director

    # Check port usage
    netstat -tulpn | grep :443
    ss -tulpn | grep :443

    # View service logs
    journalctl -u vmetric-director -n 50
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### VMMQ Connection Not Initialized

**Symptoms:**
- Log message: "vmmq connection is not initialized"
- Director starts but cannot process data
- Internal communication failures

**Resolution Steps:**

1. **Verify NATS JetStream Configuration**
   - Check that NATS server is running and accessible
   - Verify JetStream is enabled in the configuration
   - Confirm storage paths exist and have correct permissions

2. **Check Storage Directory**
   - Verify `<vm_root>/Director/storage/nats/` directory exists
   - Ensure adequate disk space for JetStream storage
   - Check directory permissions

3. **Review Configuration File**
   - Validate YAML syntax in `vmetric.yml`
   - Confirm VMMQ settings are correctly specified
   - Check for configuration file corruption

## Connection Issues

### Director Cannot Connect to Cloud Platform

**Symptoms:**
- Director status shows "Not Connected" in the web dashboard
- Connection verification fails during setup
- Timeout errors in Director logs

**Resolution Steps:**

1. **Identify Your Regional Endpoint**

   Your Director connects to the same regional cloud platform where you created it. To identify your region, check the URL in your browser when logged into the VirtualMetric dashboard:

   |Region|Endpoint|
   |--:|:--|
   |Europe|`https://app.eu-west.cloud.virtualmetric.com`|
   |US|`https://app.us-east.cloud.virtualmetric.com`|
   |Australia| `https://app.aus-east.cloud.virtualmetric.com`|

   :::info
   If you need to switch regions, log out and [select a different region](https://www.virtualmetric.com/select-your-region-login/).
   :::

2. **Validate Network Connectivity**
   - Ensure port `443` is open for outbound HTTPS connections from the Director host
   - Verify DNS resolution is working properly
   - Test connectivity to your regional endpoint using the diagnostic commands below

3. **Check Firewall Configuration**
   - Allow outbound connections to `*.cloud.virtualmetric.com` domains
   - Ensure no SSL/TLS inspection is blocking certificate validation
   - Verify proxy configurations if applicable

4. **Validate API Key**
   - Confirm the installation script was copied and executed correctly
   - Check for extra spaces or line breaks if you manually edited the script
   - Regenerate the API key from the Director's Connection tab in the dashboard if corruption is suspected

5. **Review System Time**
   - Ensure system clock is synchronized
   - Use NTP to maintain accurate time synchronization

   :::warning
   TLS certificate validation requires accurate system time. A clock skew of more than a few minutes can cause silent connection failures.
   :::

**Diagnostic Commands:**

Use your regional endpoint (identified in step 1) in the following commands:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="powershell" label="PowerShell" default>
    ```powershell
    # Set your regional endpoint
    $region = "eu-west"  # Change to: us-east or aus-east

    # Test DNS resolution
    Resolve-DnsName "app.$region.cloud.virtualmetric.com"

    # Check outbound connectivity
    Test-NetConnection -ComputerName "app.$region.cloud.virtualmetric.com" -Port 443

    # Verify TLS connectivity
    Invoke-WebRequest -Uri "https://app.$region.cloud.virtualmetric.com" -Method Head -UseBasicParsing
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="bash" label="Bash">
    ```bash
    # Set your regional endpoint
    REGION="eu-west"  # Change to: us-east or aus-east

    # Test DNS resolution
    nslookup "app.$REGION.cloud.virtualmetric.com"

    # Check outbound connectivity
    nc -zv "app.$REGION.cloud.virtualmetric.com" 443

    # Verify TLS connectivity
    curl -I "https://app.$REGION.cloud.virtualmetric.com"
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Connection Drops Intermittently

**Symptoms:**
- Director alternates between Connected and Not Connected states
- Periodic timeout errors in logs
- Data processing interruptions

**Resolution Steps:**

1. **Network Stability Check**
   - Monitor network latency and packet loss to your regional endpoint
   - Verify network equipment stability
   - Check for bandwidth limitations or throttling

2. **Resource Monitoring**
   - Ensure adequate CPU and memory resources
   - Monitor disk I/O performance
   - Check for resource contention with other services

3. **Proxy Configuration**
   - Verify proxy server stability and configuration
   - Check proxy authentication credentials
   - Consider bypassing proxy for VirtualMetric endpoints

## Data Processing Issues

### Director Not Receiving Data

**Symptoms:**
- No data appearing in target destinations
- Zero throughput metrics in monitoring
- Source systems showing successful transmission

**Resolution Steps:**

1. **Source Configuration Verification**
   - Confirm correct Director IP address in source system configuration
   - Verify port numbers match between source and Director
   - Check protocol settings (TCP/UDP for syslog, HTTP/HTTPS for APIs)

2. **Network Connectivity Testing**
   - Test connection from source system to Director
   - Verify routing and firewall rules allow traffic
   - Use packet capture tools to confirm data transmission

3. **Director Input Configuration**
   - Review device configuration in Director settings
   - Verify enabled protocols and listening ports
   - Check for configuration syntax errors

4. **Log Analysis**
   - Examine Director logs for input processing errors
   - Check for data parsing or validation failures
   - Review error messages for specific issues

**Diagnostic Commands:**

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="powershell" label="PowerShell" default>
    ```powershell
    # Test syslog connectivity (UDP)
    $udpClient = New-Object System.Net.Sockets.UdpClient
    $bytes = [Text.Encoding]::ASCII.GetBytes("<14>Test message from PowerShell")
    $udpClient.Send($bytes, $bytes.Length, "<director_ip>", 514)
    $udpClient.Close()

    # Check listening ports
    Get-NetTCPConnection -LocalPort 514 -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue
    Get-NetUDPEndpoint -LocalPort 514 -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="bash" label="Bash">
    ```bash
    # Test syslog connectivity
    logger -n <director_ip> -P 514 "Test message"

    # Check listening ports
    netstat -tulpn | grep <director_ip>

    # Monitor network traffic
    tcpdump -i any port 514
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Router Queue Errors

**Symptoms:**
- Log message: "There is no available log file for [logtype] in the router queue"
- Data processing appears stalled
- Empty storage/logs directory

**Resolution Steps:**

1. **Verify Storage Configuration**
   - Check that `<vm_root>/Director/storage/` directory exists
   - Ensure subdirectories (data, logs, queue, sender) are present
   - Verify write permissions on storage directories

2. **Check Disk Space**
   - Ensure adequate free disk space for queue operations
   - Monitor disk usage during high-volume periods
   - Configure log rotation if disk space is limited

   :::warning
   If disk space is exhausted, queued data may be lost. Monitor storage usage proactively in high-volume environments.
   :::

3. **Review Route Configuration**
   - Verify routes are properly configured and enabled
   - Check that devices and targets are correctly linked
   - Validate pipeline configuration syntax

### Data Processing Errors

**Symptoms:**
- Partial data processing with error messages
- Data transformation failures
- Inconsistent output formatting

**Resolution Steps:**

1. **Pipeline Configuration Review**
   - Validate YAML syntax in processing pipelines
   - Check field mappings and transformation rules
   - Verify regular expressions and parsing patterns

2. **Data Format Validation**
   - Examine sample input data for format consistency
   - Check for unexpected characters or encoding issues
   - Verify timestamp formats match expected patterns

3. **Resource Monitoring**
   - Monitor CPU and memory usage during processing
   - Check for disk space availability
   - Ensure adequate processing capacity for data volume

## Performance Issues

### High Resource Usage

**Symptoms:**
- Excessive CPU or memory consumption
- System performance degradation
- Out of memory errors

**Resolution Steps:**

1. **Configuration Tuning**
   - Adjust buffer sizes and queue lengths
   - Optimize processing batch sizes
   - Configure appropriate timeout values

2. **Pipeline Optimization**
   - Identify resource-intensive transformation operations
   - Optimize data parsing and enrichment logic
   - Consider sampling for high-volume data streams

3. **System Monitoring**
   - Implement comprehensive resource monitoring
   - Set up alerts for resource threshold breaches
   - Plan capacity upgrades based on usage patterns

### Slow Data Processing

**Symptoms:**
- High latency between data ingestion and output
- Growing backlog of unprocessed data
- Timeout errors in processing pipeline

**Resolution Steps:**

1. **Resource Optimization**
   - Increase CPU and memory allocation to Director
   - Monitor resource utilization patterns
   - Consider vertical scaling for improved performance

2. **Pipeline Efficiency**
   - Review processing pipeline for optimization opportunities
   - Simplify complex transformation rules where possible
   - Optimize regular expressions and parsing logic

3. **Output Destination Performance**
   - Check target system capacity and response times
   - Verify network connectivity to destination systems
   - Consider batch processing for improved throughput

## Log Analysis

### Director Log Locations

**Windows:**
```
<vm_root>\Director\storage\logs\
```

**Linux:**
```
<vm_root>/Director/storage/logs/
```

### Common Log Messages

| Message | Meaning | Action |
|:--------|:--------|:-------|
| `vmmq connection is not initialized` | NATS JetStream not available | Check NATS configuration and storage |
| `Can not update device state` | Device status update failed | Verify VMMQ connectivity |
| `Health check failed` | Device collector unhealthy | Service will auto-restart collector |
| `Can not fetch messages` | Message queue read error | Check NATS server health |
| `Failed to start VMMQ server` | Internal messaging startup failed | Review configuration and permissions |

:::note
The Director service includes automatic recovery for transient failures. Messages like "Health check failed" are often followed by automatic collector restart without manual intervention.
:::

### Log Analysis Commands

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="powershell" label="PowerShell" default>
    ```powershell
    # Monitor real-time logs
    Get-Content "<vm_root>\Director\storage\logs\director.log" -Wait -Tail 50

    # Search for errors
    Select-String -Path "<vm_root>\Director\storage\logs\*.log" -Pattern "error|failed" -AllMatches
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="bash" label="Bash">
    ```bash
    # Monitor real-time logs
    tail -f <vm_root>/Director/storage/logs/director.log

    # Search for errors
    grep -i "error\|failed" <vm_root>/Director/storage/logs/*.log
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Support and Escalation

:::note[Clustered Deployments]
For Directors in a cluster, troubleshoot each Director individually using the procedures above. Cluster health is an aggregation of individual Director states.
:::

When standard troubleshooting procedures don't resolve issues:

1. **Gather Diagnostic Information**
   - Collect relevant log files and error messages
   - Document system configuration and environment details
   - Note specific symptoms and reproduction steps

2. **Contact Support**
   - Include Director version (`vmetric-director -version`)
   - Provide timeline of when issues first occurred

   :::tip
   Submit support tickets at [support.virtualmetric.com](https://support.virtualmetric.com). Include log excerpts and configuration snippets to expedite resolution.
   :::

3. **Emergency Escalation**
   - For critical production issues, use emergency contact procedures
   - Follow your organization's incident management processes
