docs/getting-started/basics.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Configuration Basics
---

# Getting Started: Configuration Basics

**VirtualMetric Director** telemetry processes are configured with YAML format files. In this chapter, we will give you a brief summary of how these files are used and the minimum configurations required.

## The Files

The configurations may be placed in separate files or they may be grouped together logically, i.e. based on how they are intended to be used or the type of data streams they process.

By default, the files reside in the directories under the `config` folder, and have a `.yml` extension. They are organized as, e.g.:

<dl>
<dt>`<vm_root>/config/`</dt>
  <dd>
    <dt>`devices/`</dt>
      <dd>`syslog.yml`</dd>
    <dt>`routes/`</dt>
      <dd>`default.yml`</dd>
    <dt>`targets/`</dt>
      <dd>`console.yml`</dd>
      <dd>`file.yml`</dd>
  </dd>
</dl>

where `<vm_root>` indicates the path of the directory you have placed **VirtualMetric Director** folder tree.

:::tip
You can place your files anywhere you wish under the `config` directory. **Director** discovers all of them by traversing the folders recursively.
:::

To illustrate, a target file can be named as, e.g.

> `config/target.yml`

-or-

> `config/targets/outputs.yml`

-or-

> `config/targets/outputs/sentinel.yml`

As the nesting level increases, file names become more specific, offering additional context for classification.

It is also possible to use _standalone_ files placed in any arbitrary directory you wish. In that case, the full path of the file must be supplied to **Director**, e.g.

  <Tabs groupId="os-options">
    <TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
      ```powershell
      vmetric-director -path="C:\Users\<user-name>\Documents\sentinel-logs.yml"
      ```
    </TabItem>
    
    <TabItem value="linux" label="Linux" default>
      ```bash
      vmetric-director -path="./sentinel-logs.yml"
      ```
    </TabItem>

    <TabItem value="macos" label="macOS" default>
      ```bash
      vmetric-director -path="./sentinel-logs.yml"
      ```
    </TabItem>
  </Tabs>

Select the organizational style that best suits your needs.

## The Syntax

Wherever you place your files, though, you have to keep in mind a few details while creating and editing configurations:

:::warning[attention]
In the YAML file where you will specify the components you intend to use, 

- the _kind_ of component you will declare (_devices_, _targets_, _pipelines_, or _routes_) has to be specified at the first level and followed by a colon, e.g. `devices:` or `pipelines:`

- the identifier of the component must be specified prefixed with a dash followed by a colon, e.g. `- id:` or `- name:`
:::

In other words, the YAML tree starts with the _kind_ of component you will enlist, the next level dashes indicate that it is an item of that kind, while the dashes on the third level indicate the enlisted values of a field that accepts arrays and maps:

```yaml
component-kind1:
  - entry1-identifier: identifier1
    entry1-field1: value
    entry1-field2:
      - value1
      - value2
    ...
  - entry2-identifier: identifier2
    entry2-field1: value
    ...
component-kind2:
  - entry1-identifier: identifier1
    entry1-field1: value
    ...
```  

:::note
The **Schema** sections of the chapters for various kinds of components provide the fields used by them.
:::

## The CLI

You can invoke the processes you want **Director** to run from a terminal. The `-help` switch will enlist the available parameters.

Here are a few typical use cases:

* Collecting _Syslog_:

  <Tabs groupId="os-options">
    <TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
      ```powershell
      vmetric-director -mode=generator -protocol=syslog -address=127.0.0.1:514
      ```
    </TabItem>
    
    <TabItem value="linux" label="Linux" default>
      ```bash
        vmetric-director -mode=generator -protocol=syslog -address=127.0.0.1:514
      ```
    </TabItem>

    <TabItem value="macos" label="macOS" default>
      ```bash
        vmetric-director -mode=generator -protocol=syslog -address=127.0.0.1:514
      ```
    </TabItem>
  </Tabs>

* Viewing logs with a specific debug level:

  <Tabs groupId="os-options">
    <TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
      ```powershell
      vmetric-director -mode=console -debugLevel=3
      ```
    </TabItem>
    
    <TabItem value="linux" label="Linux" default>
      ```bash
        vmetric-director -mode=console -debugLevel=3
      ```
    </TabItem>

    <TabItem value="macos" label="macOS" default>
      ```bash
        vmetric-director -mode=console -debugLevel=3
      ```
    </TabItem>
  </Tabs>

* Running a specific pipeline with validation:

  <Tabs groupId="os-options">
    <TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
      ```powershell
      vmetric-director -mode=pipeline -name=<pipeline_name> -validate
      ```
    </TabItem>
    
    <TabItem value="linux" label="Linux" default>
      ```bash
        vmetric-director -mode=pipeline -name=<pipeline_name> -validate
      ```
    </TabItem>

    <TabItem value="macos" label="macOS" default>
      ```bash
        vmetric-director -mode=pipeline -name=<pipeline_name> -validate
      ```
    </TabItem>
  </Tabs>

In the following sections, we will provide the relevant commands to execute the configured examples.

## The Components

To stream and collect data points, to process them, and to forward them to destinations, **Director** uses the following types of configurable components.

### Devices

Devices are data sources that collect or receive data. The fields required to define them are:

- `id`: Unique numeric identifier
- `name`: Descriptive name
- `type`: Device type (e.g. `http`, `tcp`, `udp`, `syslog`, `estreamer`, `azmon`, `windows`)
- `properties`: Type-specific configuration settings

:::tip
Each device type provides specific options detailed in its respective [chapter](/docs/configuration/devices/index.mdx).
:::

Use the `id` of the device to refer to it in your configurations.

**Example**:

```yaml
devices:
  - id: 1
    type: http
    properties:
      port: 8080
      content_type: "application/json"
```

This is an HTTP device listening on port `8080`, and it expects the streamed data to be in JSON format.

:::note
For a general discussion of devices, see the [overview](/docs/configuration/devices/index.mdx).
:::

### Targets

Targets define the destinations where processed data is sent. The fields required to define them are:

- `name`: Unique identifier
- `type`: Target type (destination system)
- `properties`: Type-specific configuration (connection details, authentication, etc.)

:::tip
Each target type provides specific options detailed in its respective [chapter](/docs/configuration/targets/index.mdx).
:::

Use the `name` of the target to refer to it in your configurations.

**Example**:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: elasticsearch
    type: elasticsearch
    properties:
      hosts: ["http://elasticsearch:9200"]
      index: "logs-%{+yyyy.MM.dd}"
      username: "elastic"
      password: "${PASSWORD}"
```

The target listed here is of type `elasticsearch`. It specifies the host that it will forward the data to and the index on the host which the data will be apppended to. To access the host, it specifies a username and a password.

:::tip
You can use environment variables like `${PASSWORD}` for your credentials. This will improve security by removing the credentials from your configuration file.
:::

Multiple targets can be used for redundancy, [normalization](/docs/configuration/pipelines/normalization.mdx) rules can be implemented, and alerts can be put in place for notification and error handling.

:::note
For a general discussion of targets, see the [overview](/docs/configuration/targets/index.mdx).
:::

### Pipelines

Pipelines describe data workflows that use processors which transform and enrich the data. The fields required to define them are:

- `name`: Unique identifier
- `processors`: List of processors with their structures

Use the `name` of the pipeline to refer to it in your configurations.

**Example**:

```yaml
pipelines:
  - name: checkpoint
    processors:
      - grok:
          field: message
          patterns:
            - "%{COMMONAPACHELOG}"
      - set:
          field: event.provider
          value: "checkpoint"
```

This pipeline uses a `grok` processor with a pattern that extracts _Apache_ log data, and a `set` processor to write "`checkpoint`" to the `event.provider` field.

Pipelines can also access the _metadata_ of processors. These are:

* `tag`: Identifier used for logging/tracking processor execution
* `logEntry`: Log entry being processed
* `params`: Map of parameters available to scripts

The data these metatags provide depends on the context and the log format.

:::note
For a general discussion of pipelines, see the [overview](/docs/configuration/pipelines/index.mdx).
:::

### Routes

Routes define the flow of data from devices through pipelines to targets. The fields required to define them are:

- `name`: Unique identifier
- `devices`: List of device IDs or patterns that match source devices
- `targets`: List of target IDs where data should be sent
- `pipelines`: (Optional) List of pipeline IDs for data processing

:::warning
Do _not_ confuse these fields with the component entries at the first level. As routes are at the highest level of a telemetry configuration, they orchestrate the stream by specifying the components that create the traffic.
:::

Use the `name` of the route to refer to it in your configurations.

The enlisted devices, targets, and pipelines must be pre-configured to be usable by routes. Use their ids or names to refer to them.

**Example**:

```yaml
routes:
  - name: syslog_to_backup
    devices: 
      - syslog_*
    pipelines: 
      - normalize
      - enrich
    targets: 
      - backup
```

This route receives its data from devices with the prefix `syslog_` in their names, uses the `normalize` and `enrich` pipelines to transform the received data points, and then forwards them to the target named `backup`.

:::note
For a general discussion of routes, see the [overview](/docs/configuration/routes/index.mdx).
:::

You can now try the examples to see how **Director** works.

Commit message:

Added BNF syntax for configurations, and edits on basics

docs/getting-started/basics.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Configuration Basics
---

# Getting Started: Configuration Basics

**VirtualMetric Director** telemetry processes are configured with YAML format files. In this chapter, we will give you a brief summary of how these files are used and the minimum configurations required.

## The Files

The configurations may be placed in separate files or they may be grouped together logically, i.e. based on how they are intended to be used or the type of data streams they process.

By default, the files reside in the directories under the `config` folder, and have a `.yml` extension. They are organized as, e.g.:

<dl>
<dt>`<vm_root>/config/`</dt>
  <dd>
    <dt>`devices/`</dt>
      <dd>`syslog.yml`</dd>
    <dt>`routes/`</dt>
      <dd>`default.yml`</dd>
    <dt>`targets/`</dt>
      <dd>`console.yml`</dd>
      <dd>`file.yml`</dd>
  </dd>
</dl>

where `<vm_root>` indicates the path of the directory you have placed **VirtualMetric Director** folder tree.

:::tip
You can place your files anywhere you wish under the `config` directory. **Director** discovers all of them by traversing the folders recursively.
:::

To illustrate, a target file can be named as, e.g.

> `config/target.yml`

-or-

> `config/targets/outputs.yml`

-or-

> `config/targets/outputs/sentinel.yml`

As the nesting level increases, file names become more specific, offering additional context for classification.

It is also possible to use _standalone_ files placed in any arbitrary directory you wish. In that case, the full path of the file must be supplied to **Director**, e.g.

  <Tabs groupId="os-options">
    <TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
      ```powershell
      vmetric-director -path="C:\Users\<user-name>\Documents\sentinel-logs.yml"
      ```
    </TabItem>
    
    <TabItem value="linux" label="Linux" default>
      ```bash
      vmetric-director -path="./sentinel-logs.yml"
      ```
    </TabItem>

    <TabItem value="macos" label="macOS" default>
      ```bash
      vmetric-director -path="./sentinel-logs.yml"
      ```
    </TabItem>
  </Tabs>

Select the organizational style that best suits your needs.

## The Syntax

Wherever you place your files, you have to keep in mind a few details while creating and editing configurations: they must be structured as mentioned in the **Definition Syntax** section of [Configuration Overview](/docs/configuration/index.mdx).

:::note
The **Schema** sections of the chapters for various kinds of components provide the fields used by them.
:::

## The CLI

You can invoke the processes you want **Director** to run from a terminal. The `-help` switch will enlist the available parameters.

Here are a few typical use cases:

* Collecting _Syslog_:

  <Tabs groupId="os-options">
    <TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
      ```powershell
      vmetric-director -mode=generator -protocol=syslog -address=127.0.0.1:514
      ```
    </TabItem>
    
    <TabItem value="linux" label="Linux" default>
      ```bash
        vmetric-director -mode=generator -protocol=syslog -address=127.0.0.1:514
      ```
    </TabItem>

    <TabItem value="macos" label="macOS" default>
      ```bash
        vmetric-director -mode=generator -protocol=syslog -address=127.0.0.1:514
      ```
    </TabItem>
  </Tabs>

* Viewing logs with a specific debug level:

  <Tabs groupId="os-options">
    <TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
      ```powershell
      vmetric-director -mode=console -debugLevel=3
      ```
    </TabItem>
    
    <TabItem value="linux" label="Linux" default>
      ```bash
        vmetric-director -mode=console -debugLevel=3
      ```
    </TabItem>

    <TabItem value="macos" label="macOS" default>
      ```bash
        vmetric-director -mode=console -debugLevel=3
      ```
    </TabItem>
  </Tabs>

* Running a specific pipeline with validation:

  <Tabs groupId="os-options">
    <TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
      ```powershell
      vmetric-director -mode=pipeline -name=<pipeline_name> -validate
      ```
    </TabItem>
    
    <TabItem value="linux" label="Linux" default>
      ```bash
        vmetric-director -mode=pipeline -name=<pipeline_name> -validate
      ```
    </TabItem>

    <TabItem value="macos" label="macOS" default>
      ```bash
        vmetric-director -mode=pipeline -name=<pipeline_name> -validate
      ```
    </TabItem>
  </Tabs>

In the following sections, we will provide the relevant commands to execute the configured examples.

## The Components

To stream and collect data points, to process them, and to forward them to destinations, **Director** uses the following types of configurable components.

### Devices

Devices are data sources that collect or receive data. The fields required to define them are:

- `id`: Unique numeric identifier
- `name`: Descriptive name
- `type`: Device type (e.g. `http`, `tcp`, `udp`, `syslog`, `estreamer`, `azmon`, `windows`)
- `properties`: Type-specific configuration settings

:::tip
Each device type provides specific options detailed in its respective [chapter](/docs/configuration/devices/index.mdx).
:::

Use the `id` of the device to refer to it in your configurations.

**Example**:

```yaml
devices:
  - id: 1
    type: http
    properties:
      port: 8080
      content_type: "application/json"
```

This is an HTTP device listening on port `8080`, and it expects the streamed data to be in JSON format.

:::note
For a general discussion of devices, see the [overview](/docs/configuration/devices/index.mdx).
:::

### Targets

Targets define the destinations where processed data is sent. The fields required to define them are:

- `name`: Unique identifier
- `type`: Target type (destination system)
- `properties`: Type-specific configuration (connection details, authentication, etc.)

:::tip
Each target type provides specific options detailed in its respective [chapter](/docs/configuration/targets/index.mdx).
:::

Use the `name` of the target to refer to it in your configurations.

**Example**:

```yaml
targets:
  - name: elasticsearch
    type: elasticsearch
    properties:
      hosts: ["http://elasticsearch:9200"]
      index: "logs-%{+yyyy.MM.dd}"
      username: "elastic"
      password: "${PASSWORD}"
```

The target listed here is of type `elasticsearch`. It specifies the host that it will forward the data to and the index on the host which the data will be apppended to. To access the host, it specifies a username and a password.

:::tip
You can use environment variables like `${PASSWORD}` for your credentials. This will improve security by removing the credentials from your configuration file.
:::

Multiple targets can be used for redundancy, [normalization](/docs/configuration/pipelines/normalization.mdx) rules can be implemented, and alerts can be put in place for notification and error handling.

:::note
For a general discussion of targets, see the [overview](/docs/configuration/targets/index.mdx).
:::

### Pipelines

Pipelines describe data workflows that use processors which transform and enrich the data. The fields required to define them are:

- `name`: Unique identifier
- `processors`: List of processors with their structures

Use the `name` of the pipeline to refer to it in your configurations.

**Example**:

```yaml
pipelines:
  - name: checkpoint
    processors:
      - grok:
          field: message
          patterns:
            - "%{COMMONAPACHELOG}"
      - set:
          field: event.provider
          value: "checkpoint"
```

This pipeline uses a `grok` processor with a pattern that extracts _Apache_ log data, and a `set` processor to write "`checkpoint`" to the `event.provider` field.

Pipelines can also access the _metadata_ of processors. These are:

* `tag`: Identifier used for logging/tracking processor execution
* `logEntry`: Log entry being processed
* `params`: Map of parameters available to scripts

The data these metatags provide depends on the context and the log format.

:::note
For a general discussion of pipelines, see the [overview](/docs/configuration/pipelines/index.mdx).
:::

### Routes

Routes define the flow of data from devices through pipelines to targets. The fields required to define them are:

- `name`: Unique identifier
- `devices`: List of device IDs or patterns that match source devices
- `targets`: List of target IDs where data should be sent
- `pipelines`: (Optional) List of pipeline IDs for data processing

:::warning
Do _not_ confuse these fields with the component entries at the first level. As routes are at the highest level of a telemetry configuration, they orchestrate the stream by specifying the components that create the traffic.
:::

Use the `name` of the route to refer to it in your configurations.

The enlisted devices, targets, and pipelines must be pre-configured to be usable by routes. Use their ids or names to refer to them.

**Example**:

```yaml
routes:
  - name: syslog_to_backup
    devices: 
      - syslog_*
    pipelines: 
      - normalize
      - enrich
    targets: 
      - backup
```

This route receives its data from devices with the prefix `syslog_` in their names, uses the `normalize` and `enrich` pipelines to transform the received data points, and then forwards them to the target named `backup`.

:::note
For a general discussion of routes, see the [overview](/docs/configuration/routes/index.mdx).
:::

You can now try the examples to see how **Director** works.
