docs/getting-started/example-device.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Example: Device Configuration"
---

# Device Configuration

In this chapter, we will see how to configure a device to ingest data with specific protocols.

The device configuration files have a `.yml` extension, and they reside inside the `devices` directory under the `config` folder:

```powershell
├───config
│   ├───devices
│   │       syslog.yml
│   │
│   ├───routes
│   │       default.yml
│   │
│   └───targets
│           console.yml
│           file.yml
```

**Director** discovers these files by traversing the subdirectories recursively.

:::note
Each device type provides specific options detailed in its respective chapter.
:::

However, users can organize their device files as they wish, regardless of the above folder structure. This can be done in two ways:

- Using a standalone file:

    <Tabs groupId="cli-options">
      <TabItem value="powershell" label="PowerShell" default>
        ```PowerShell
        C:\Users\<user-name>\Documents\syslog.yml
        ```
      </TabItem>
      <TabItem value="bash" label="Bash">  
        ```bash
        ~: syslog.yml
        ```
      </TabItem>
    </Tabs>

- Using a listener-based grouping:

    <Tabs groupId="cli-options">
      <TabItem value="powershell" label="PowerShell" default>
        ```PowerShell
        C:\<vm_root>\listeners\syslog.yml
        ```
      </TabItem>
      <TabItem value="bash" label="Bash">  
        ```bash
        ~: <vm_root>/listeners/syslog.yml
        ```
      </TabItem>
    </Tabs>

Choose the one that best fits your needs.

## Basic UDP Setup

### 1. Create Configuration

Create a text file with a `.yml` extension in your preferred location, and then open it with a text editor to enter the following:

```yaml
- id: 1
  name: syslog_udp
  type: syslog
  properties:
    protocol: udp
    address: 0.0.0.0
    port: 514
```

This YAML code specifies that your device is a _Syslog_, and that you will use **UDP** as your listening protocol on port `514`. You can enter any integer as your `id` value.

### 2. Test Configuration

You can now test this configuration using either **Director**'s cross-platform companion **Generator** or traditional tools available:

<Tabs groupId="os-options">
  <TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
    Using **Generator**

    ```powershell
    vmetric-generator -mode=syslog -address=127.0.0.1:514 -message="Test Message"
    ```
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">
    Using **Generator**

    ```bash
    vmetric-generator -mode=syslog -address=127.0.0.1:514 -message="Test Message"
    ```

    Using **System Logger**

    ```bash
    logger -n 127.0.0.1 -P 514 "Test message"
    ```
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="macos" label="macOS">
    Using **System Logger**

    ```bash
    logger -n 127.0.0.1 -P 514 "Test message"
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Secure TCP Setup

We will now create a secure TLS configuration.

### 1. Prepare Certificates

First we have to prepare the TLS certificates. This can be done using either **Director** or **OpenSSL**.

<Tabs groupId="os-options">
  <TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
    Using **Director**

    ```powershell
    vmetric-director -pfx2pem=./cert-file.pfx # Windows
    ```
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">
    Using **Director**

    ```bash
    vmetric-director -pfx2pem=./cert-file.pfx
    ```

    Using **OpenSSL**

    ```bash
    openssl genrsa -out server.key 2048
    openssl req -new -x509 -key server.key -out server.crt -days 365
    ```
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="macos" label="macOS">
    Using **Director**

    ```bash
    vmetric-director -pfx2pem=./cert-file.pfx
    ```
    
    Using **OpenSSL**

    ```bash
    openssl genrsa -out server.key 2048
    openssl req -new -x509 -key server.key -out server.crt -days 365
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

This generates the `key.pem` and `cert.pem` files.

:::warning
Always use TLS encryption in production environments, especially over untrusted networks. Ensure proper file permissions are set on these files:

- the private key file (`key.pem`) should be readable only by the **Director** process
- the certificate file (`cert.pem`) can be world-readable
:::

### 2. Place Certificates

Now that we have created these files files, we must copy them to our installation root directory:

<Tabs groupId="os-options">
  <TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
    ```powershell
    cp cert.pem key.pem <vm_root>/
    ```
  </TabItem>
  
  <TabItem value="linux" label="Linux" default>
    ```bash
    cp cert.pem key.pem <vm_root>/
    ```
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="macos" label="macOS" default>
    ```bash
    cp cert.pem key.pem <vm_root>/
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### 3. Create Secure Configuration

We will now prepare a secure configuration by creating another `.yml` file named `secure_syslog.yml`:

```yaml
- id: 2
  name: syslog_secure
  type: syslog
  properties:
    protocol: tcp
    address: 0.0.0.0
    port: 6514
    tls:
      status: true
      cert_name: cert.pem
      key_name: key.pem
    framing: octet
    max_connections: 1000
    timeout: 300
    batch_size: 5000
    queue:
      interval: 2
```

Note that we have specified the certificate files we have previously created.

### 4. Test Configuration

Test the secure connection:

<Tabs groupId="os-options">
  <TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
    ```powershell
    echo "Test secure message" | openssl s_client -connect 127.0.0.1:6514
    ```
  </TabItem>
  
  <TabItem value="linux" label="Linux" default>
    ```bash
    echo "Test secure message" | openssl s_client -connect 127.0.0.1:6514
    ```
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="macos" label="macOS" default>
    ```bash
    echo "Test secure message" | openssl s_client -connect 127.0.0.1:6514
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Performance Tuning

For high-volume environments, add the following to your configuration:

```yaml
  reuse: true
  workers: 4
  buffer_size: 32768
  flush_interval: 5
```

The number of workers, the buffer size, and the flush interval will all have ab impact on performance.

## Monitoring

Check **Director**'s logs for success messages on launching and initialization, connection acceptance, and configuration validation.

:::tip
Worker counts, buffer sizes, and batch settings can be adjusted based on your message volume.
:::

## Next Steps

Configure and use message forwarding, advanced authentication options, and pipelines.

Commit message:

Added draft for routes in getting started; removed id field from targets; also proofed some targets

docs/getting-started/example-device.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Example: Device Configuration"
---

# Getting Started: Devices

This chapter will help you get started with devices to ingest data with specific protocols, walking you through some common scenarios.

# Folder Structure

The device configuration files reside in the `devices` directory under the `config` folder, and have a `.yml` extension:

```powershell
├───config
│   ├───devices
│   │       syslog.yml
│   │
│   ├───routes
│   │       default.yml
│   │
│   └───targets
│           console.yml
│           file.yml
```

**Director** discovers these files by traversing the subdirectories recursively.

:::note
Each device type provides specific options detailed in its respective [chapter](/docs/configuration/devices/).
:::

You can organize your device files as you wish, regardless of the above folder tree. This can be done in two ways:

- Using a standalone file:

    <Tabs groupId="cli-options">
      <TabItem value="powershell" label="PowerShell" default>
        ```PowerShell
        C:\Users\<user-name>\Documents\syslog.yml
        ```
      </TabItem>
      <TabItem value="bash" label="Bash">  
        ```bash
        ~: syslog.yml
        ```
      </TabItem>
    </Tabs>

- Using a listener-based grouping:

    <Tabs groupId="cli-options">
      <TabItem value="powershell" label="PowerShell" default>
        ```PowerShell
        C:\<vm_root>\listeners\syslog.yml
        ```
      </TabItem>
      <TabItem value="bash" label="Bash">  
        ```bash
        ~: <vm_root>/listeners/syslog.yml
        ```
      </TabItem>
    </Tabs>

Choose the one that best fits your needs.

## Basic UDP Setup

### 1. Create Configuration

Create a text file with a `.yml` extension in your preferred location, and then open it with a text editor to enter the following:

```yaml
- id: 1
  name: syslog_udp
  type: syslog
  properties:
    protocol: udp
    address: 0.0.0.0
    port: 514
```

This YAML code specifies that your device is a _Syslog_, and that you will use **UDP** as your listening protocol on port `514`. You can enter any integer as your `id` value.

### 2. Test Configuration

You can now test this configuration using either **Director**'s cross-platform companion **Generator** or traditional tools available:

<Tabs groupId="os-options">
  <TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
    Using **Generator**

    ```powershell
    vmetric-generator -mode=syslog -address=127.0.0.1:514 -message="Test Message"
    ```
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">
    Using **Generator**

    ```bash
    vmetric-generator -mode=syslog -address=127.0.0.1:514 -message="Test Message"
    ```

    Using **System Logger**

    ```bash
    logger -n 127.0.0.1 -P 514 "Test message"
    ```
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="macos" label="macOS">
    Using **System Logger**

    ```bash
    logger -n 127.0.0.1 -P 514 "Test message"
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Secure TCP Setup

We will now create a secure TLS configuration.

### 1. Prepare Certificates

First we have to prepare the TLS certificates. This can be done using either **Director** or **OpenSSL**.

<Tabs groupId="os-options">
  <TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
    Using **Director**

    ```powershell
    vmetric-director -pfx2pem=./cert-file.pfx # Windows
    ```
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">
    Using **Director**

    ```bash
    vmetric-director -pfx2pem=./cert-file.pfx
    ```

    Using **OpenSSL**

    ```bash
    openssl genrsa -out server.key 2048
    openssl req -new -x509 -key server.key -out server.crt -days 365
    ```
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="macos" label="macOS">
    Using **Director**

    ```bash
    vmetric-director -pfx2pem=./cert-file.pfx
    ```
    
    Using **OpenSSL**

    ```bash
    openssl genrsa -out server.key 2048
    openssl req -new -x509 -key server.key -out server.crt -days 365
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

This generates the `key.pem` and `cert.pem` files.

:::warning
Always use TLS encryption in production environments, especially over untrusted networks. Ensure proper file permissions are set on these files:

- the private key file (`key.pem`) should be readable only by the **Director** process
- the certificate file (`cert.pem`) can be world-readable
:::

### 2. Place Certificates

Now that we have created these files files, we must copy them to our installation root directory:

<Tabs groupId="os-options">
  <TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
    ```powershell
    Copy-Item cert.pem key.pem <vm_root>/
    ```
  </TabItem>
  
  <TabItem value="linux" label="Linux" default>
    ```bash
    cp cert.pem key.pem <vm_root>/
    ```
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="macos" label="macOS" default>
    ```bash
    cp cert.pem key.pem <vm_root>/
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### 3. Create Secure Configuration

We will now prepare a secure configuration by creating another `.yml` file named `secure_syslog.yml`:

```yaml
- id: 2
  name: syslog_secure
  type: syslog
  properties:
    protocol: tcp
    address: 0.0.0.0
    port: 6514
    tls:
      status: true
      cert_name: cert.pem
      key_name: key.pem
    framing: octet
    max_connections: 1000
    timeout: 300
    batch_size: 5000
    queue:
      interval: 2
```

Note that we have specified the certificate files we have previously created.

### 4. Test Configuration

Test the secure connection:

<Tabs groupId="os-options">
  <TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
    ```powershell
    Write-Output "Test secure message" | openssl s_client -connect 127.0.0.1:6514
    ```
  </TabItem>
  
  <TabItem value="linux" label="Linux" default>
    ```bash
    echo "Test secure message" | openssl s_client -connect 127.0.0.1:6514
    ```
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="macos" label="macOS" default>
    ```bash
    echo "Test secure message" | openssl s_client -connect 127.0.0.1:6514
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Performance Tuning

For high-volume environments, add the following to your configuration:

```yaml
  reuse: true
  workers: 4
  buffer_size: 32768
  flush_interval: 5
```

The number of workers, the buffer size, and the flush interval will all have ab impact on performance.

## Monitoring

Check **Director**'s logs for success messages on launching and initialization, connection acceptance, and configuration validation.

:::tip
Worker counts, buffer sizes, and batch settings can be adjusted based on your message volume.
:::

## Next Steps

You can now proceed to configuring and using

- message forwarding
- advanced authentication options
