docs/getting-started/introduction.mdx, before:

---
pagination_prev: null
sidebar_label: Introduction
---

# Getting Started: Introduction

Welcome to **VirtualMetric DataStream**. This section will help you deploy your product and get started using it.

## Suite

**DataStream** is a telemetry pipeline solution that simplifies data collection, data processing, and data routing for **Microsoft Sentinel** and other **Azure** data services. It uses pipelines to process, enrich, and direct data flows to their optimal destinations. 

The product suite contains the following applications:

- **Director** - see <Topic id="about-director">this section</Topic> for a more detailed description.

	The primary workhorse of our system. It contains the engine that, using a multi-layered configuration setup, ingests massive data from multiple sources, then processes, transforms,and enriches that data based on a very flexible and composable logic, and then routes them in order to forward the processed data to multiple destinations.

- **Agent** - see <Topic id="about-agent">this section</Topic> for a more detailed description.

	The component that enables completely centralized and unattended management of **Directors** deployed to thousands of machines. Reconfiguring the data flows streamed on whole slews of machines and multiple networks have never been easier.

## Deployment

Before you proceed, please review our <Topic id="deployment-overview">**Deployment Models**</Topic> to see your options.

Here, we will use **Single Node Deployment**&mdash;i.e. we will deploy on a single machine as this is the simplest and most straightforward.

We recommend that you keep all **VirtualMetric** executables in the same directory, preferably named `VirtualMetric`. You can create that directory in advance:

<Tabs>
	<TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
	```PowerShell
	New-Item -Path "C:\Program Files\VirtualMetric" -ItemType Folder
	```
	</TabItem>
	<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">
	```bash
	mkdir /opt/VirtualMetric
	```
	</TabItem>
	<TabItem value="macos" label="macOS">
	```bash
	mkdir /Applications/VirtualMetric
	```
	</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Throughout the documentation, we will refer to this folder as `<vm_root>`. Once you have created your installation folder, you can deploy the applications.

## Downloads

- <Topic id="single-node-director">Download and install **Director**</Topic>.

	If you chose to deploy manually, make sure to create the following folders under `<vm_root>`:

	<Tabs>
		<TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
		```PowerShell
		New-Item -Path "<vm_root>\config\devices","<vm_root>\config\targets","<vm_root>\config\routes" -ItemType Directory -Force
		```
		</TabItem>
		<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">
		```bash
		mkdir -p <vm_root>/config/{devices,targets,routes}
		```
		</TabItem>
		<TabItem value="macos" label="macOS">
		```bash
		mkdir -p <vm_root>/config/{devices,targets,routes}
		```
		</TabItem>
	</Tabs>

	With the script-based online installation, this directory tree&mdash;as well as other default folders&mdash;are created automatically.

- <Topic id="single-node-agent">Download and install **Agent**</Topic>.

:::info
To access the executables from any directory, make sure to add `<vm_root>` to your `$PATH` environment variable.

To add only for the current session:

<Tabs>
	<TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
	```PowerShell
	$Env:PATH += ";<vm_root>"
	```
	</TabItem>
	<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">
	```bash
	export PATH=$PATH:<vm_root>
	```
	</TabItem>
	<TabItem value="macos" label="macOS">
	```bash
	export PATH=$PATH:<vm_root>
	```
	</TabItem>
</Tabs>

To add for all sessions:

<Tabs>
	<TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
		- Open **Settings**.
		- Go to **System > About**, scroll down to click the link **Advanced system settings**.
		- Click the button **Environment Variables** at the bottom of the dialog box.
		- On the lower pane labelled **System variables**, click the variable **Path**.
		- Go to the bottom of the list, and add the full path of `<vm_root>`.
		- Click **OK** to close the box and apply the updated settings.
	</TabItem>
	<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">
		- Open **Terminal**.
		- In your home directory, open `.profile` with **vim**.
			```bash
			$ vim .profile
			```
		- Add the following line at the bottom of the file:
			```bash
			export PATH=$PATH:<vm_root>
			```
		- Save and close the file.
	</TabItem>
	<TabItem value="macos" label="macOS">
		- Open Finder and navigate to your home directory (`~/`).
		- Locate the shell configuration file for your shell. For **zsh** (default shell for **Catalina** or later), that will be `.zshrc` or `.zprofile`.
		- Open it with a text editor like **TextEdit**:
			```bash
			open -e ~/.zprofile
			```
		- Add the following line at the bottom of the file:
			```bash
			export PATH=$PATH:<vm_root>
			```
		- Save and close the file.
	</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Do _not_ forget to close and reopen your terminal.
:::

---

## Next

After completing the above, you can proceed to the <Topic id="examples-user-notes">**Examples**</Topic> to review various scenarios demonstrating how our powerful applications work.

Commit message:

All paths updated to reflect our new directory structure

docs/getting-started/introduction.mdx, after:

---
pagination_prev: null
sidebar_label: Introduction
---

# Getting Started: Introduction

Welcome to **VirtualMetric DataStream**. This section will help you deploy your product and get started using it.

## Suite

**DataStream** is a telemetry pipeline solution that simplifies data collection, data processing, and data routing for **Microsoft Sentinel** and other **Azure** data services. It uses pipelines to process, enrich, and direct data flows to their optimal destinations. 

The product suite contains the following applications:

- **Director** - see <Topic id="about-director">this section</Topic> for a more detailed description.

	The primary workhorse of our system. It contains the engine that, using a multi-layered configuration setup, ingests massive data from multiple sources, then processes, transforms,and enriches that data based on a very flexible and composable logic, and then routes them in order to forward the processed data to multiple destinations.

- **Agent** - see <Topic id="about-agent">this section</Topic> for a more detailed description.

	The component that enables completely centralized and unattended management of **Directors** deployed to thousands of machines. Reconfiguring the data flows streamed on whole slews of machines and multiple networks have never been easier.

## Deployment

Before you proceed, please review our <Topic id="deployment-overview">**Deployment Models**</Topic> to see your options.

Here, we will use **Single Node Deployment**&mdash;i.e. we will deploy on a single machine as this is the simplest and most straightforward.

We recommend that you keep all **VirtualMetric** executables in the same directory, preferably named `VirtualMetric`. You can create that directory in advance:

<Tabs>
	<TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
	```PowerShell
	New-Item -Path "C:\Program Files\VirtualMetric" -ItemType Folder
	```
	</TabItem>
	<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">
	```bash
	mkdir /opt/VirtualMetric
	```
	</TabItem>
	<TabItem value="macos" label="macOS">
	```bash
	mkdir /Applications/VirtualMetric
	```
	</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Throughout the documentation, we will refer to this folder as `<vm_root>`. With the new architecture, **Director** and **Agent** services have separate installation structures:

- `<vm_root>/Director/` - Director installation with full package structure
- `<vm_root>/Agent/` - Agent installation with minimal structure

Once you have created your installation folder, you can deploy the applications.

## Downloads

- <Topic id="single-node-director">Download and install **Director**</Topic>.

	If you chose to deploy manually, make sure to create the following folder structures for the service you're installing:

	<Tabs>
		<TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
		```PowerShell
		# For Director installation
		New-Item -Path "<vm_root>\Director\config\devices","<vm_root>\Director\config\targets","<vm_root>\Director\config\routes" -ItemType Directory -Force

		# For Agent installation  
		New-Item -Path "<vm_root>\Agent\config" -ItemType Directory -Force
		```
		</TabItem>
		<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">
		```bash
		# For Director installation
		mkdir -p <vm_root>/Director/config/{devices,targets,routes}

		# For Agent installation
		mkdir -p <vm_root>/Agent/config
		```
		</TabItem>
		<TabItem value="macos" label="macOS">
		```bash
		# For Director installation
		mkdir -p <vm_root>/Director/config/{devices,targets,routes}

		# For Agent installation
		mkdir -p <vm_root>/Agent/config
		```
		</TabItem>
	</Tabs>

	With the script-based online installation, this directory tree&mdash;as well as other default folders&mdash;are created automatically.

- <Topic id="single-node-agent">Download and install **Agent**</Topic>.

:::info
To access the executables from any directory, make sure to add both Director and Agent paths to your `$PATH` environment variable.

To add only for the current session:

<Tabs>
	<TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
	```PowerShell
	$Env:PATH += ";<vm_root>\Director;<vm_root>\Agent"
	```
	</TabItem>
	<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">
	```bash
	export PATH=$PATH:<vm_root>/Director:<vm_root>/Agent
	```
	</TabItem>
	<TabItem value="macos" label="macOS">
	```bash
	export PATH=$PATH:<vm_root>/Director:<vm_root>/Agent
	```
	</TabItem>
</Tabs>

To add for all sessions:

<Tabs>
	<TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
		- Open **Settings**.
		- Go to **System > About**, scroll down to click the link **Advanced system settings**.
		- Click the button **Environment Variables** at the bottom of the dialog box.
		- On the lower pane labelled **System variables**, click the variable **Path**.
		- Go to the bottom of the list, and add both paths: `<vm_root>\Director` and `<vm_root>\Agent`.
		- Click **OK** to close the box and apply the updated settings.
	</TabItem>
	<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">
		- Open **Terminal**.
		- In your home directory, open `.profile` with **vim**.
			```bash
			$ vim .profile
			```
		- Add the following line at the bottom of the file:
			```bash
			export PATH=$PATH:<vm_root>/Director:<vm_root>/Agent
			```
		- Save and close the file.
	</TabItem>
	<TabItem value="macos" label="macOS">
		- Open Finder and navigate to your home directory (`~/`).
		- Locate the shell configuration file for your shell. For **zsh** (default shell for **Catalina** or later), that will be `.zshrc` or `.zprofile`.
		- Open it with a text editor like **TextEdit**:
			```bash
			open -e ~/.zprofile
			```
		- Add the following line at the bottom of the file:
			```bash
			export PATH=$PATH:<vm_root>/Director:<vm_root>/Agent
			```
		- Save and close the file.
	</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Do _not_ forget to close and reopen your terminal.
:::

---

## Next

After completing the above, you can proceed to the <Topic id="examples-user-notes">**Examples**</Topic> to review various scenarios demonstrating how our powerful applications work.
