docs/configuration/targets/aws/amazon-opensearch.mdx, before:

# Amazon OpenSearch

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Amazon AWS</span><span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Search & Analytics</span>

## Synopsis

Creates an Amazon OpenSearch target that sends data using the Bulk API with AWS IAM authentication. Supports multiple endpoints, field normalization, customizable batch sizing, and automatic load balancing across OpenSearch nodes.

## Schema

```yaml {1,3}
- name: <string>
  description: <string>
  type: amazonopensearch
  status: <boolean>
  pipelines: <pipeline[]>
  properties:
    index: <string>
    max_payload_size_kb: <numeric>
    batch_size: <numeric>
    timeout: <numeric>
    insecure_skip_verify: <boolean>
    use_compression: <boolean>
    write_action: <string>
    filter_path: <string>
    pipeline: <string>
    field_format: <string>
    endpoints:
      - endpoint: <string>
        use_iam: <boolean>
        region: <string>
        key: <string>
        secret: <string>
        session: <string>
        username: <string>
        password: <string>
    interval: <string|numeric>
    cron: <string>
    debug:
      status: <boolean>
      dont_send_logs: <boolean>
```

## Configuration

The following are the fields used to define the target:

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`name`|Y|-|Target name|
|`description`|N|-|Optional description|
|`type`|Y|-|Must be `amazonopensearch`|
|`pipelines`|N|-|Optional post-processor pipelines|
|`status`|N|`true`|Enable/disable the target|

### OpenSearch

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`index`|Y|-|Default OpenSearch index name|
|`max_payload_size_kb`|N|`4096`|Maximum bulk request size in KB|
|`batch_size`|N|`10000`|Maximum number of events per batch|
|`timeout`|N|`30`|Connection timeout in seconds|
|`insecure_skip_verify`|N|`false`|Skip TLS certificate verification|
|`use_compression`|N|`true`|Enable GZIP compression|
|`write_action`|N|`create`|Bulk API action (`index`, `create`, `update`, `delete`)|
|`filter_path`|N|`errors,items.*.error,items.*._index,items.*.status`|Response filter path|
|`pipeline`|N|-|Ingest pipeline name|
|`field_format`|N|-|Data normalization format. See applicable <Topic id="pipelines-normalization-field-mapping">Normalization</Topic> section|

### Endpoint

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`endpoint`|Y|-|OpenSearch domain URL (automatically appends `/_bulk` if not present)|
|`use_iam`|N|`true`|Use AWS IAM authentication (recommended)|
|`region`|Y*|-|AWS region for IAM authentication|
|`key`|N*|-|AWS access key ID|
|`secret`|N*|-|AWS secret access key|
|`session`|N|-|AWS session token for temporary credentials|
|`username`|N|-|Basic auth username (alternative to IAM)|
|`password`|N|-|Basic auth password (alternative to IAM)|

\* = Required when `use_iam` is `true`. If `key` and `secret` are not provided, the target will use the default AWS credential chain (environment variables, IAM role, etc.).

### Scheduler

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`interval`|N|realtime|Execution frequency. See <Topic id="scheduling-interval-based">Interval</Topic> for details|
|`cron`|N|-|Cron expression for scheduled execution. See <Topic id="scheduling-cron-based">Cron</Topic> for details|

### Debug Options

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`debug.status`|N|`false`|Enable debug logging|
|`debug.dont_send_logs`|N|`false`|Process logs but don't send to target (testing)|

## Details

The target supports AWS IAM authentication using Signature V4, multiple endpoints, compression, and ingest pipelines. Data is batched for efficient delivery and can be automatically routed to different indices.

URLs are automatically appended with `/_bulk` if the suffix is not present. Events are batched until either the batch size or payload size limit is reached.

For load balancing, events are sent to randomly selected endpoints. If an endpoint fails, the next endpoint in the randomized list is tried until successful delivery or all endpoints fail.

Each event is automatically enriched with a timestamp in RFC3339 format based on the log's epoch time. You can route events to different indices by setting the `index` field in a pipeline processor.

:::warning
Long timeout values may lead to connection pooling issues and increased resource consumption.
:::

:::warning
Setting `max_payload_size_kb` too high might cause memory pressure and can exceed OpenSearch's `http.max_content_length` setting (default 100MB).
:::

### AWS IAM Authentication

Amazon OpenSearch Service supports two authentication methods:

**IAM Authentication** (recommended)
- Uses AWS Signature V4 to sign HTTP requests
- No passwords stored in configuration
- Integrates with AWS IAM policies and roles
- Supports temporary credentials from STS
- Default authentication method for this target

**Basic Authentication**
- Traditional username and password
- Requires fine-grained access control enabled on the domain
- Less secure than IAM authentication

When `use_iam` is `true`, the target signs all HTTP requests with AWS Signature V4. The signing process uses the service name `es` as required by Amazon OpenSearch Service.

### AWS Credential Chain

If `key` and `secret` are not provided in the endpoint configuration, the target uses the AWS SDK default credential chain:

1. Environment variables (`AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`)
2. Shared credentials file (`~/.aws/credentials`)
3. IAM role for EC2 instances
4. IAM role for ECS tasks
5. IAM role for Lambda functions

This allows seamless integration when running on AWS infrastructure without hardcoding credentials.

### Load Balancing and Failover

When multiple endpoints are configured, the target uses randomized load balancing. For each batch:

1. Endpoints are randomly shuffled
2. The batch is sent to the first endpoint
3. If it fails, the next endpoint in the shuffled list is tried
4. This continues until successful delivery or all endpoints fail

If only some endpoints fail but delivery eventually succeeds, the batch is cleared and a partial error is logged. If all endpoints fail, the batch is retained for retry and a complete failure error is returned.

### JSON Message Handling

The target intelligently handles messages that are already in JSON format:

- If a message contains an `@timestamp` field or is ECS-normalized, it's treated as a structured JSON document
- The JSON is parsed and sent as-is to OpenSearch
- If parsing fails, the message is sent as plain text with an auto-generated timestamp

This allows you to send both structured and unstructured logs through the same target.

### Dynamic Index Routing

Route events to different indices using pipeline processors by setting the `index` field:

```yaml
pipelines:
  - name: route_by_type
    processors:
      - set:
          field: index
          value: "error-logs"
          if: "level == 'error'"
      - set:
          field: index
          value: "metrics"
          if: "type == 'metric'"
```

This allows flexible routing without creating multiple target configurations.

### Bulk API Error Handling

The target parses the bulk API response to detect individual document errors:

- Uses `filter_path` to reduce response size and focus on error details
- Extracts error type, reason, and HTTP status for failed documents
- Returns detailed error messages indicating which documents failed and why

Common errors include:
- Document version conflicts (for `create` action)
- Mapping errors (field type mismatches)
- Index not found or closed
- Pipeline failures (when using ingest pipelines)

### Write Actions

The `write_action` field determines how documents are indexed:

- **`create`** (default): Only index if document doesn't exist. Fails on duplicates.
- **`index`**: Index or replace existing document. Always succeeds unless there's a system error.
- **`update`**: Update existing document. Fails if document doesn't exist.
- **`delete`**: Remove document. Use carefully.

### Response Filtering

The `filter_path` parameter filters the bulk API response to reduce network overhead:

- **`errors`**: Boolean indicating if any operations failed
- **`items.*.error`**: Error details for failed operations
- **`items.*._index`**: Index name for each operation
- **`items.*.status`**: HTTP status code for each operation

For high-volume scenarios, this filtering significantly reduces response size and parsing overhead.

### Field Normalization

The `field_format` property allows normalizing log data to standard formats:

- `ecs` - Elastic Common Schema

Field normalization is applied before the logs are sent to OpenSearch, ensuring consistent indexing and search capabilities. ECS normalization maps common fields to OpenSearch's standard schema for improved compatibility with OpenSearch Dashboards and detection rules.

### Compression

Compression is enabled by default and uses gzip to reduce network bandwidth. This adds minimal CPU overhead but can significantly improve throughput for high-volume scenarios. Disable compression only if you have bandwidth to spare and want to reduce CPU usage.

## Examples

### Basic with IAM

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Simple OpenSearch output with IAM authentication...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: opensearch_output
        type: amazonopensearch
        properties:
          index: "logs-%Y.%m.%d"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://search-domain.us-east-1.es.amazonaws.com"
              region: "us-east-1"
              key: "AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE"
              secret: "wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### IAM Role

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Using IAM role credentials (no explicit keys needed)...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: iam_role_opensearch
        type: amazonopensearch
        properties:
          index: "application-logs"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://search-domain.us-east-1.es.amazonaws.com"
              region: "us-east-1"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

:::note
When using IAM role authentication on EC2, ECS, or Lambda, credentials are automatically retrieved from the instance metadata service or task role.
:::

### Temporary Credentials

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Using temporary STS credentials with session token...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: temp_creds_opensearch
        type: amazonopensearch
        properties:
          index: "temp-logs"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://search-domain.us-east-1.es.amazonaws.com"
              region: "us-east-1"
              key: "ASIATEMP1234567890AB"
              secret: "tempSecretKeyExample1234567890"
              session: "FwoGZXIvYXdzEBYaDH...session-token"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Basic Authentication

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Using basic authentication instead of IAM...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: basic_auth_opensearch
        type: amazonopensearch
        properties:
          index: "secure-logs"
          use_compression: true
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://search-domain.us-east-1.es.amazonaws.com"
              use_iam: false
              username: "admin"
              password: "MyPassword123"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Ingest Pipeline

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Send data through an ingest pipeline for server-side processing...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: pipeline_opensearch
        type: amazonopensearch
        properties:
          index: "processed-logs"
          pipeline: "log-processor"
          write_action: "create"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://search-domain.us-east-1.es.amazonaws.com"
              region: "us-east-1"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### High-Volume

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Optimized for high-volume data ingestion with load balancing...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: highvol_opensearch
        type: amazonopensearch
        properties:
          index: "metrics"
          batch_size: 20000
          max_payload_size_kb: 8192
          use_compression: true
          timeout: 60
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://search-domain1.us-east-1.es.amazonaws.com"
              region: "us-east-1"
            - endpoint: "https://search-domain2.us-east-1.es.amazonaws.com"
              region: "us-east-1"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Field Normalization

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Using ECS field normalization for enhanced compatibility...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: ecs_opensearch
        type: amazonopensearch
        properties:
          index: "normalized-logs"
          field_format: "ecs"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://search-domain.us-east-1.es.amazonaws.com"
              region: "us-east-1"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Index Action

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Using index action to allow document updates and overwrites...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: index_opensearch
        type: amazonopensearch
        properties:
          index: "application-logs"
          write_action: "index"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://search-domain.us-east-1.es.amazonaws.com"
              region: "us-east-1"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Minimal Response

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Optimize for minimal response size by filtering to only errors...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: minimal_opensearch
        type: amazonopensearch
        properties:
          index: "logs"
          filter_path: "errors"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://search-domain.us-east-1.es.amazonaws.com"
              region: "us-east-1"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Cross-Region

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Configuration with OpenSearch domains in different regions...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: multiregion_opensearch
        type: amazonopensearch
        properties:
          index: "distributed-logs"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://search-domain.us-east-1.es.amazonaws.com"
              region: "us-east-1"
            - endpoint: "https://search-domain.eu-west-1.es.amazonaws.com"
              region: "eu-west-1"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

## Performance Tuning

### Batch Size vs Payload Size

Events are batched until either limit is reached:

- **`batch_size`**: Number of events per batch
- **`max_payload_size_kb`**: Total size in kilobytes

Tune these based on your average event size:
- **Small events (&lt;1KB)**: Increase `batch_size`, keep default `max_payload_size_kb`
- **Large events (>10KB)**: Keep default `batch_size`, increase `max_payload_size_kb`
- **Mixed sizes**: Monitor both limits and adjust based on actual batch sizes

### Timeout

Setting appropriate timeouts helps balance reliability and performance:

- **Short timeouts (10-30s)**: Fail fast, better for real-time scenarios
- **Long timeouts (60s+)**: More tolerant of network issues, but may cause connection pooling problems

### Compression

Enable compression (default) for high-volume scenarios to reduce network bandwidth. Disable only if CPU is constrained and network bandwidth is abundant.

### Filter Path

The default `filter_path` provides detailed error information while minimizing response size. For even better performance in high-volume scenarios with low error rates, use `filter_path: "errors"` to only return the error flag.

## Troubleshooting

### IAM Authentication Errors

If you encounter IAM authentication errors:
- Verify AWS credentials are valid and not expired
- Check IAM policy allows `es:ESHttpPost` and `es:ESHttpPut` actions
- Ensure the region matches your OpenSearch domain region
- For temporary credentials, verify the session token is included

Common IAM error messages:
- **Access denied**: IAM policy doesn't allow required actions
- **Invalid signature**: Check system clock is synchronized
- **Credential expired**: Refresh temporary credentials

### Bulk API Errors

Check logs for detailed error messages including:
- Document index and position in batch
- Error type and reason
- HTTP status code

Common issues:
- **Version conflicts**: Switch to `index` action or handle conflicts in your application
- **Mapping errors**: Ensure field types match index mapping
- **Pipeline errors**: Verify ingest pipeline configuration

### Payload Size Exceeded

If you see "bulk request size exceeds limit" errors:
1. Reduce `batch_size`
2. Reduce `max_payload_size_kb`
3. Check OpenSearch's `http.max_content_length` setting

### Partial Endpoint Failures

If some endpoints fail but delivery succeeds, check logs for partial failure errors indicating which endpoints are problematic. Verify network connectivity and OpenSearch domain health.

### All Endpoints Failed

If all endpoints fail:
- Verify network connectivity to OpenSearch domains
- Check OpenSearch cluster health in AWS Console
- Ensure security groups allow traffic from your source
- Review OpenSearch domain logs for errors
- Verify IAM permissions for the credentials being used

Commit message:

Enhance documentation for various targets and add HTTP target configuration
- Added `version` field to Elasticsearch and OpenSearch target documentation for API compatibility.
- Updated Splunk target type from `splunk` to `splunksecurity` across multiple instances in the documentation.
- Introduced new fields `batch_mode` and `batch_separator` in Amazon MSK, IBM Event Streams, Aiven Kafka, Apache Kafka, Confluent Cloud, Redpanda, and Warpstream target documentation for improved batch processing.
- Added `debug` options to Amazon MSK, IBM Event Streams, Aiven Kafka, Apache Kafka, Confluent Cloud, Redpanda, and Warpstream target documentation for enhanced logging and testing capabilities.
- Created new HTTP target documentation detailing configuration options, authentication methods, and examples for sending log data to HTTP/HTTPS endpoints.
- Updated sidebars to include the new HTTP target documentation.

docs/configuration/targets/aws/amazon-opensearch.mdx, after:

# Amazon OpenSearch

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Amazon AWS</span><span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Search & Analytics</span>

## Synopsis

Creates an Amazon OpenSearch target that sends data using the Bulk API with AWS IAM authentication. Supports multiple endpoints, field normalization, customizable batch sizing, and automatic load balancing across OpenSearch nodes.

## Schema

```yaml {1,3}
- name: <string>
  description: <string>
  type: amazonopensearch
  status: <boolean>
  pipelines: <pipeline[]>
  properties:
    version: <numeric>
    index: <string>
    max_payload_size_kb: <numeric>
    batch_size: <numeric>
    timeout: <numeric>
    insecure_skip_verify: <boolean>
    use_compression: <boolean>
    write_action: <string>
    filter_path: <string>
    pipeline: <string>
    field_format: <string>
    endpoints:
      - endpoint: <string>
        use_iam: <boolean>
        region: <string>
        key: <string>
        secret: <string>
        session: <string>
        username: <string>
        password: <string>
    interval: <string|numeric>
    cron: <string>
    debug:
      status: <boolean>
      dont_send_logs: <boolean>
```

## Configuration

The following are the fields used to define the target:

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`name`|Y|-|Target name|
|`description`|N|-|Optional description|
|`type`|Y|-|Must be `amazonopensearch`|
|`pipelines`|N|-|Optional post-processor pipelines|
|`status`|N|`true`|Enable/disable the target|

### OpenSearch

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`version`|N|`8`|OpenSearch/Elasticsearch major version (7 or 8) for API compatibility|
|`index`|Y|-|Default OpenSearch index name|
|`max_payload_size_kb`|N|`4096`|Maximum bulk request size in KB|
|`batch_size`|N|`10000`|Maximum number of events per batch|
|`timeout`|N|`30`|Connection timeout in seconds|
|`insecure_skip_verify`|N|`false`|Skip TLS certificate verification|
|`use_compression`|N|`true`|Enable GZIP compression|
|`write_action`|N|`create`|Bulk API action (`index`, `create`, `update`, `delete`)|
|`filter_path`|N|`errors,items.*.error,items.*._index,items.*.status`|Response filter path|
|`pipeline`|N|-|Ingest pipeline name|
|`field_format`|N|-|Data normalization format. See applicable <Topic id="pipelines-normalization-field-mapping">Normalization</Topic> section|

### Endpoint

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`endpoint`|Y|-|OpenSearch domain URL (automatically appends `/_bulk` if not present)|
|`use_iam`|N|`true`|Use AWS IAM authentication (recommended)|
|`region`|Y*|-|AWS region for IAM authentication|
|`key`|N*|-|AWS access key ID|
|`secret`|N*|-|AWS secret access key|
|`session`|N|-|AWS session token for temporary credentials|
|`username`|N|-|Basic auth username (alternative to IAM)|
|`password`|N|-|Basic auth password (alternative to IAM)|

\* = Required when `use_iam` is `true`. If `key` and `secret` are not provided, the target will use the default AWS credential chain (environment variables, IAM role, etc.).

### Scheduler

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`interval`|N|realtime|Execution frequency. See <Topic id="scheduling-interval-based">Interval</Topic> for details|
|`cron`|N|-|Cron expression for scheduled execution. See <Topic id="scheduling-cron-based">Cron</Topic> for details|

### Debug Options

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`debug.status`|N|`false`|Enable debug logging|
|`debug.dont_send_logs`|N|`false`|Process logs but don't send to target (testing)|

## Details

The target supports AWS IAM authentication using Signature V4, multiple endpoints, compression, and ingest pipelines. Data is batched for efficient delivery and can be automatically routed to different indices.

URLs are automatically appended with `/_bulk` if the suffix is not present. Events are batched until either the batch size or payload size limit is reached.

For load balancing, events are sent to randomly selected endpoints. If an endpoint fails, the next endpoint in the randomized list is tried until successful delivery or all endpoints fail.

Each event is automatically enriched with a timestamp in RFC3339 format based on the log's epoch time. You can route events to different indices by setting the `index` field in a pipeline processor.

:::warning
Long timeout values may lead to connection pooling issues and increased resource consumption.
:::

:::warning
Setting `max_payload_size_kb` too high might cause memory pressure and can exceed OpenSearch's `http.max_content_length` setting (default 100MB).
:::

### AWS IAM Authentication

Amazon OpenSearch Service supports two authentication methods:

**IAM Authentication** (recommended)
- Uses AWS Signature V4 to sign HTTP requests
- No passwords stored in configuration
- Integrates with AWS IAM policies and roles
- Supports temporary credentials from STS
- Default authentication method for this target

**Basic Authentication**
- Traditional username and password
- Requires fine-grained access control enabled on the domain
- Less secure than IAM authentication

When `use_iam` is `true`, the target signs all HTTP requests with AWS Signature V4. The signing process uses the service name `es` as required by Amazon OpenSearch Service.

### AWS Credential Chain

If `key` and `secret` are not provided in the endpoint configuration, the target uses the AWS SDK default credential chain:

1. Environment variables (`AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`)
2. Shared credentials file (`~/.aws/credentials`)
3. IAM role for EC2 instances
4. IAM role for ECS tasks
5. IAM role for Lambda functions

This allows seamless integration when running on AWS infrastructure without hardcoding credentials.

### Load Balancing and Failover

When multiple endpoints are configured, the target uses randomized load balancing. For each batch:

1. Endpoints are randomly shuffled
2. The batch is sent to the first endpoint
3. If it fails, the next endpoint in the shuffled list is tried
4. This continues until successful delivery or all endpoints fail

If only some endpoints fail but delivery eventually succeeds, the batch is cleared and a partial error is logged. If all endpoints fail, the batch is retained for retry and a complete failure error is returned.

### JSON Message Handling

The target intelligently handles messages that are already in JSON format:

- If a message contains an `@timestamp` field or is ECS-normalized, it's treated as a structured JSON document
- The JSON is parsed and sent as-is to OpenSearch
- If parsing fails, the message is sent as plain text with an auto-generated timestamp

This allows you to send both structured and unstructured logs through the same target.

### Dynamic Index Routing

Route events to different indices using pipeline processors by setting the `index` field:

```yaml
pipelines:
  - name: route_by_type
    processors:
      - set:
          field: index
          value: "error-logs"
          if: "level == 'error'"
      - set:
          field: index
          value: "metrics"
          if: "type == 'metric'"
```

This allows flexible routing without creating multiple target configurations.

### Bulk API Error Handling

The target parses the bulk API response to detect individual document errors:

- Uses `filter_path` to reduce response size and focus on error details
- Extracts error type, reason, and HTTP status for failed documents
- Returns detailed error messages indicating which documents failed and why

Common errors include:
- Document version conflicts (for `create` action)
- Mapping errors (field type mismatches)
- Index not found or closed
- Pipeline failures (when using ingest pipelines)

### Write Actions

The `write_action` field determines how documents are indexed:

- **`create`** (default): Only index if document doesn't exist. Fails on duplicates.
- **`index`**: Index or replace existing document. Always succeeds unless there's a system error.
- **`update`**: Update existing document. Fails if document doesn't exist.
- **`delete`**: Remove document. Use carefully.

### Response Filtering

The `filter_path` parameter filters the bulk API response to reduce network overhead:

- **`errors`**: Boolean indicating if any operations failed
- **`items.*.error`**: Error details for failed operations
- **`items.*._index`**: Index name for each operation
- **`items.*.status`**: HTTP status code for each operation

For high-volume scenarios, this filtering significantly reduces response size and parsing overhead.

### Field Normalization

The `field_format` property allows normalizing log data to standard formats:

- `ecs` - Elastic Common Schema

Field normalization is applied before the logs are sent to OpenSearch, ensuring consistent indexing and search capabilities. ECS normalization maps common fields to OpenSearch's standard schema for improved compatibility with OpenSearch Dashboards and detection rules.

### Compression

Compression is enabled by default and uses gzip to reduce network bandwidth. This adds minimal CPU overhead but can significantly improve throughput for high-volume scenarios. Disable compression only if you have bandwidth to spare and want to reduce CPU usage.

## Examples

### Basic with IAM

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Simple OpenSearch output with IAM authentication...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: opensearch_output
        type: amazonopensearch
        properties:
          index: "logs-%Y.%m.%d"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://search-domain.us-east-1.es.amazonaws.com"
              region: "us-east-1"
              key: "AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE"
              secret: "wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### IAM Role

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Using IAM role credentials (no explicit keys needed)...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: iam_role_opensearch
        type: amazonopensearch
        properties:
          index: "application-logs"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://search-domain.us-east-1.es.amazonaws.com"
              region: "us-east-1"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

:::note
When using IAM role authentication on EC2, ECS, or Lambda, credentials are automatically retrieved from the instance metadata service or task role.
:::

### Temporary Credentials

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Using temporary STS credentials with session token...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: temp_creds_opensearch
        type: amazonopensearch
        properties:
          index: "temp-logs"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://search-domain.us-east-1.es.amazonaws.com"
              region: "us-east-1"
              key: "ASIATEMP1234567890AB"
              secret: "tempSecretKeyExample1234567890"
              session: "FwoGZXIvYXdzEBYaDH...session-token"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Basic Authentication

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Using basic authentication instead of IAM...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: basic_auth_opensearch
        type: amazonopensearch
        properties:
          index: "secure-logs"
          use_compression: true
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://search-domain.us-east-1.es.amazonaws.com"
              use_iam: false
              username: "admin"
              password: "MyPassword123"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Ingest Pipeline

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Send data through an ingest pipeline for server-side processing...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: pipeline_opensearch
        type: amazonopensearch
        properties:
          index: "processed-logs"
          pipeline: "log-processor"
          write_action: "create"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://search-domain.us-east-1.es.amazonaws.com"
              region: "us-east-1"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### High-Volume

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Optimized for high-volume data ingestion with load balancing...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: highvol_opensearch
        type: amazonopensearch
        properties:
          index: "metrics"
          batch_size: 20000
          max_payload_size_kb: 8192
          use_compression: true
          timeout: 60
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://search-domain1.us-east-1.es.amazonaws.com"
              region: "us-east-1"
            - endpoint: "https://search-domain2.us-east-1.es.amazonaws.com"
              region: "us-east-1"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Field Normalization

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Using ECS field normalization for enhanced compatibility...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: ecs_opensearch
        type: amazonopensearch
        properties:
          index: "normalized-logs"
          field_format: "ecs"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://search-domain.us-east-1.es.amazonaws.com"
              region: "us-east-1"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Index Action

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Using index action to allow document updates and overwrites...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: index_opensearch
        type: amazonopensearch
        properties:
          index: "application-logs"
          write_action: "index"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://search-domain.us-east-1.es.amazonaws.com"
              region: "us-east-1"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Minimal Response

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Optimize for minimal response size by filtering to only errors...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: minimal_opensearch
        type: amazonopensearch
        properties:
          index: "logs"
          filter_path: "errors"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://search-domain.us-east-1.es.amazonaws.com"
              region: "us-east-1"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Cross-Region

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Configuration with OpenSearch domains in different regions...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    targets:
      - name: multiregion_opensearch
        type: amazonopensearch
        properties:
          index: "distributed-logs"
          endpoints:
            - endpoint: "https://search-domain.us-east-1.es.amazonaws.com"
              region: "us-east-1"
            - endpoint: "https://search-domain.eu-west-1.es.amazonaws.com"
              region: "eu-west-1"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

## Performance Tuning

### Batch Size vs Payload Size

Events are batched until either limit is reached:

- **`batch_size`**: Number of events per batch
- **`max_payload_size_kb`**: Total size in kilobytes

Tune these based on your average event size:
- **Small events (&lt;1KB)**: Increase `batch_size`, keep default `max_payload_size_kb`
- **Large events (>10KB)**: Keep default `batch_size`, increase `max_payload_size_kb`
- **Mixed sizes**: Monitor both limits and adjust based on actual batch sizes

### Timeout

Setting appropriate timeouts helps balance reliability and performance:

- **Short timeouts (10-30s)**: Fail fast, better for real-time scenarios
- **Long timeouts (60s+)**: More tolerant of network issues, but may cause connection pooling problems

### Compression

Enable compression (default) for high-volume scenarios to reduce network bandwidth. Disable only if CPU is constrained and network bandwidth is abundant.

### Filter Path

The default `filter_path` provides detailed error information while minimizing response size. For even better performance in high-volume scenarios with low error rates, use `filter_path: "errors"` to only return the error flag.

## Troubleshooting

### IAM Authentication Errors

If you encounter IAM authentication errors:
- Verify AWS credentials are valid and not expired
- Check IAM policy allows `es:ESHttpPost` and `es:ESHttpPut` actions
- Ensure the region matches your OpenSearch domain region
- For temporary credentials, verify the session token is included

Common IAM error messages:
- **Access denied**: IAM policy doesn't allow required actions
- **Invalid signature**: Check system clock is synchronized
- **Credential expired**: Refresh temporary credentials

### Bulk API Errors

Check logs for detailed error messages including:
- Document index and position in batch
- Error type and reason
- HTTP status code

Common issues:
- **Version conflicts**: Switch to `index` action or handle conflicts in your application
- **Mapping errors**: Ensure field types match index mapping
- **Pipeline errors**: Verify ingest pipeline configuration

### Payload Size Exceeded

If you see "bulk request size exceeds limit" errors:
1. Reduce `batch_size`
2. Reduce `max_payload_size_kb`
3. Check OpenSearch's `http.max_content_length` setting

### Partial Endpoint Failures

If some endpoints fail but delivery succeeds, check logs for partial failure errors indicating which endpoints are problematic. Verify network connectivity and OpenSearch domain health.

### All Endpoints Failed

If all endpoints fail:
- Verify network connectivity to OpenSearch domains
- Check OpenSearch cluster health in AWS Console
- Ensure security groups allow traffic from your source
- Review OpenSearch domain logs for errors
- Verify IAM permissions for the credentials being used
