docs/administration/devices/ms-sentinel.mdx, before:

# Microsoft Sentinel

<span class="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Microsoft Azure</span><span class="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Pull</span>

## Synopsis

Creates a collector that fetches security incidents from Azure Sentinel workspaces. Supports authentication, batch processing, and automatic incident tracking with incremental updates.

## Schema

```yaml
- id: <numeric>
  name: <string>
  description: <string>
  type: sentinel
  tags: <string[]>
  pipelines: <pipeline[]>
  status: <boolean>
  properties:
    tenant_id: <string>
    client_id: <string>
    client_secret: <string>
    subscription_id: <string>
    resource_group: <string>
    workspace_name: <string>
    batch_size: <numeric>
    event_frequency: <numeric>
```

## Configuration

The following are the minimum requirements to define the device.

### Device

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`id`|Y||Unique identifier|
|`name`|Y||Device name|
|`description`|N|-|Optional description|
|`type`|Y||Must be `sentinel`|
|`tags`|N|-|Optional tags|
|`pipelines`|N|-|Optional pre-processor pipelines|
|`status`|N|`true`|Enable/disable the device|

### Azure Authentication

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`tenant_id`|Y||Azure tenant ID|
|`client_id`|Y||Azure client ID|
|`client_secret`|Y||Azure client secret|
|`subscription_id`|Y||Azure subscription ID|

### Workspaces

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`resource_group`|Y||Azure resource group name|
|`workspace_name`|Y||Log Analytics workspace name|

### Collection

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`batch_size`|N|`1000`|Number of incidents to fetch per batch|
|`event_frequency`|N|`300`|Collection interval in seconds|

## Advanced Features

### Incidents

The collector captures comprehensive incident data such as basic incident details (ID, title, description), severity and status, classification and labels, owner information, temporal data (create, modify, activity dates and times), and information on resources.

### Incremental Updates

The collector tracks the last processed incident's timestamp, fetches only new incidents since the last checkpoint, orders incidents by creation time, and spports batch processing.

### Normalization

Incidents are automatically normalized with ECS field mapping in addition to using consistent timestamp formats, structured label handling, and owner information.

## Examples

The following are commonly used configuration types.

### Basic

A basic collector can be created as below:

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Creating a simple Sentinel collector...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 1
      name: basic_sentinel
      type: sentinel
      properties:
        tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
        client_id: "11111111-1111-1111-1111-111111111111"
        client_secret: "your-client-secret"
        subscription_id: "22222222-2222-2222-2222-222222222222"
        resource_group: "your-resource-group"
        workspace_name: "your-workspace"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### High-Volume

Large numbers of incidents can be collected:

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Optimizing for high incident volumes...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 2
      name: volume_sentinel
      type: sentinel
      properties:
        tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
        client_id: "11111111-1111-1111-1111-111111111111"
        client_secret: "your-client-secret"
        subscription_id: "22222222-2222-2222-2222-222222222222"
        resource_group: "your-resource-group"
        workspace_name: "your-workspace"
        batch_size: 5000
        event_frequency: 60
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Pipelines

Incidents can be enriched and processed:

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Applying custom processing to incidents...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 3
      name: pipeline_sentinel
      type: sentinel
      pipelines:
        - incident_enricher
        - severity_classifier
      properties:
        tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
        client_id: "11111111-1111-1111-1111-111111111111"
        client_secret: "your-client-secret"
        subscription_id: "22222222-2222-2222-2222-222222222222"
        resource_group: "your-resource-group"
        workspace_name: "your-workspace"
        batch_size: 1000
        event_frequency: 300
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Multiple Workspaces

Information can be collected from multiple workspaces:

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Configuring multiple workspace collectors...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 4
      name: prod_sentinel
      type: sentinel
      properties:
        tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
        client_id: "11111111-1111-1111-1111-111111111111"
        client_secret: "your-client-secret"
        subscription_id: "22222222-2222-2222-2222-222222222222"
        resource_group: "prod-rg"
        workspace_name: "prod-workspace"
    - id: 5
      name: dev_sentinel
      type: sentinel
      properties:
        tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
        client_id: "11111111-1111-1111-1111-111111111111"
        client_secret: "your-client-secret"
        subscription_id: "22222222-2222-2222-2222-222222222222"
        resource_group: "dev-rg"
        workspace_name: "dev-workspace"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

:::note
Each workspace collector maintains its own checkpoint, and can be configured independently.
:::

### Incident Fields

The collector maps incident fields to standardized ECS fields:

|Sentinel Field|ECS Field|Description|
|---|---|---|
|`Title`|`event.name`|Incident title|
|`Description`|`event.description`|Incident description|
|`Severity`|`event.severity`|Incident severity level|
|`Status`|`event.outcome`|Current incident status|
|`Classification`|`event.classification`|Incident classification|
|`CreatedTimeUTC`|`event.created`|Incident creation time|
|`LastModifiedTimeUTC`|`event.last_modified`|Last update time|
|`FirstActivityTimeUTC`|`event.start`|First detected activity|
|`LastActivityTimeUTC`|`event.end`|Latest detected activity|
|`OwnerEmail`|`user.email`|Assigned owner's email|
|`OwnerAssignedTo`|`user.name`|Assigned owner's name|
|`ResourceId`|`cloud.resource_id`|Azure resource ID|
|`Labels`|`labels`|Incident labels|

:::note
All timestamps are normalized at nanosecond level in UTC.
:::

Commit message:

Completed the ECS section of appendix; added links to appendix sections

docs/administration/devices/ms-sentinel.mdx, after:

# Microsoft Sentinel

<span class="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Microsoft Azure</span><span class="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Pull</span>

## Synopsis

Creates a collector that fetches security incidents from Azure Sentinel workspaces. Supports authentication, batch processing, and automatic incident tracking with incremental updates.

## Schema

```yaml
- id: <numeric>
  name: <string>
  description: <string>
  type: sentinel
  tags: <string[]>
  pipelines: <pipeline[]>
  status: <boolean>
  properties:
    tenant_id: <string>
    client_id: <string>
    client_secret: <string>
    subscription_id: <string>
    resource_group: <string>
    workspace_name: <string>
    batch_size: <numeric>
    event_frequency: <numeric>
```

## Configuration

The following are the minimum requirements to define the device.

### Device

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`id`|Y||Unique identifier|
|`name`|Y||Device name|
|`description`|N|-|Optional description|
|`type`|Y||Must be `sentinel`|
|`tags`|N|-|Optional tags|
|`pipelines`|N|-|Optional pre-processor pipelines|
|`status`|N|`true`|Enable/disable the device|

### Azure Authentication

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`tenant_id`|Y||Azure tenant ID|
|`client_id`|Y||Azure client ID|
|`client_secret`|Y||Azure client secret|
|`subscription_id`|Y||Azure subscription ID|

### Workspaces

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`resource_group`|Y||Azure resource group name|
|`workspace_name`|Y||Log Analytics workspace name|

### Collection

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`batch_size`|N|`1000`|Number of incidents to fetch per batch|
|`event_frequency`|N|`300`|Collection interval in seconds|

## Advanced Features

### Incidents

The collector captures comprehensive incident data such as basic incident details (ID, title, description), severity and status, classification and labels, owner information, temporal data (create, modify, activity dates and times), and information on resources.

### Incremental Updates

The collector tracks the last processed incident's timestamp, fetches only new incidents since the last checkpoint, orders incidents by creation time, and spports batch processing.

### Normalization

Incidents are automatically normalized with ECS field mapping in addition to using consistent timestamp formats, structured label handling, and owner information. (See [Appendix](/docs/appendix.mdx#ecs) for details of ECS.)

## Examples

The following are commonly used configuration types.

### Basic

A basic collector can be created as below:

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Creating a simple Sentinel collector...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 1
      name: basic_sentinel
      type: sentinel
      properties:
        tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
        client_id: "11111111-1111-1111-1111-111111111111"
        client_secret: "your-client-secret"
        subscription_id: "22222222-2222-2222-2222-222222222222"
        resource_group: "your-resource-group"
        workspace_name: "your-workspace"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### High-Volume

Large numbers of incidents can be collected:

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Optimizing for high incident volumes...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 2
      name: volume_sentinel
      type: sentinel
      properties:
        tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
        client_id: "11111111-1111-1111-1111-111111111111"
        client_secret: "your-client-secret"
        subscription_id: "22222222-2222-2222-2222-222222222222"
        resource_group: "your-resource-group"
        workspace_name: "your-workspace"
        batch_size: 5000
        event_frequency: 60
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Pipelines

Incidents can be enriched and processed:

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Applying custom processing to incidents...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 3
      name: pipeline_sentinel
      type: sentinel
      pipelines:
        - incident_enricher
        - severity_classifier
      properties:
        tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
        client_id: "11111111-1111-1111-1111-111111111111"
        client_secret: "your-client-secret"
        subscription_id: "22222222-2222-2222-2222-222222222222"
        resource_group: "your-resource-group"
        workspace_name: "your-workspace"
        batch_size: 1000
        event_frequency: 300
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Multiple Workspaces

Information can be collected from multiple workspaces:

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Configuring multiple workspace collectors...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 4
      name: prod_sentinel
      type: sentinel
      properties:
        tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
        client_id: "11111111-1111-1111-1111-111111111111"
        client_secret: "your-client-secret"
        subscription_id: "22222222-2222-2222-2222-222222222222"
        resource_group: "prod-rg"
        workspace_name: "prod-workspace"
    - id: 5
      name: dev_sentinel
      type: sentinel
      properties:
        tenant_id: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
        client_id: "11111111-1111-1111-1111-111111111111"
        client_secret: "your-client-secret"
        subscription_id: "22222222-2222-2222-2222-222222222222"
        resource_group: "dev-rg"
        workspace_name: "dev-workspace"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

:::note
Each workspace collector maintains its own checkpoint, and can be configured independently.
:::

### Incident Fields

The collector maps incident fields to standardized ECS fields:

|Sentinel Field|ECS Field|Description|
|---|---|---|
|`Title`|`event.name`|Incident title|
|`Description`|`event.description`|Incident description|
|`Severity`|`event.severity`|Incident severity level|
|`Status`|`event.outcome`|Current incident status|
|`Classification`|`event.classification`|Incident classification|
|`CreatedTimeUTC`|`event.created`|Incident creation time|
|`LastModifiedTimeUTC`|`event.last_modified`|Last update time|
|`FirstActivityTimeUTC`|`event.start`|First detected activity|
|`LastActivityTimeUTC`|`event.end`|Latest detected activity|
|`OwnerEmail`|`user.email`|Assigned owner's email|
|`OwnerAssignedTo`|`user.name`|Assigned owner's name|
|`ResourceId`|`cloud.resource_id`|Azure resource ID|
|`Labels`|`labels`|Incident labels|

:::note
All timestamps are normalized at nanosecond level in UTC.
:::
