docs/administration/devices/syslog.mdx, before:

# Syslog

<span class="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Pull</span>

## Synopsis

Creates a Syslog server that accepts log messages over UDP or TCP connections. Supports both plain and TLS-encrypted connections, with configurable framing and buffering options.

## Schema

```yaml
- id: <numeric>
  name: <string>
  description: <string>
  type: syslog
  tags: <string[]>
  pipelines: <pipeline[]>
  status: <boolean>
  properties:
    protocol: <string>
    address: <string>
    port: <numeric>
    framing: <string>
    line_delimiter: <string>
    max_connections: <numeric>
    timeout: <numeric>
    tls:
      status: <boolean>
      cert_name: <string>
      key_name: <string>
    reuse: <boolean>
    workers: <numeric>
    buffer_size: <numeric>
    max_message_size: <numeric>
    flush_interval: <numeric>
    batch_size: <numeric>
    queue:
      interval: <numeric>
    forwarding:
      - address: <string>
        port: <numeric>
        type: <string>
```

## Configuration

The following are the minimum requirements to define the device.

### Device

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`id`|Y||Unique identifier|
|`name`|Y||Device name|
|`description`|N|-|Optional description|
|`type`|Y||Must be `syslog`|
|`tags`|N|-|Optional tags|
|`pipelines`|N|-|Optional pre-processor pipelines|
|`status`|N|`true`|Enable/disable the device|

### Protocol

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`protocol`|N|`"udp"`|Transport protocol (`udp` or `tcp`)|
|`address`|N|`"0.0.0.0"`|Listen address|
|`port`|Y||Listen port|

### TCP

The following are only applicable when `protocol` is set to `tcp`.

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`framing`|N|`"delimiter"`|Framing mode for TCP (`delimiter` or `octet`)|
|`line_delimiter`|N|`"\\n"`|Line separator for TCP delimiter framing|

### TLS

The following are only applicable when `protocol` is set to `tcp`.

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`tls.status`|N|`false`|Enable TLS encryption|
|`tls.cert_name`|Y||TLS certificate file path (required if TLS enabled)|
|`tls.key_name`|Y||TLS private key file path (required if TLS enabled)|

:::note
The TLS certificate and key files must be placed in the service root directory.
:::

## Advanced Configuration

To enhance performance and achieve better data handling, the following settings are used.

### Performance Tuning

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`reuse`|N|`true`|Enable socket address reuse|
|`workers`|N|`<dynamic>`|Number of worker processes when reuse enabled|
|`max_connections`|N|`10000`|Maximum concurrent TCP connections|
|`max_message_size`|N|`20971520`|Maximum message size in bytes (20MB)|
|`timeout`|N|`300`|Connection timeout in seconds|
|`buffer_size`|N|`9000`|Network read buffer size in bytes|

### Message Buffering

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`flush_interval`|N|`1`|Message flush interval in seconds|
|`batch_size`|N|`1000`|Number of messages to batch before flushing|
|`queue.interval`|N|`1`|Queue processing interval in seconds|

### Message Forwarding

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`forwarding[].address`|Y||Forward destination address|
|`forwarding[].port`|N|`514`|Forward destination port|
|`forwarding[].type`|N|`"udp"`|Forward protocol (`udp` or `tcp`)|

## Examples

The following are commonly used configuration types.

### Basic

A basic configuration can be created easily using "udp" for `protocol` and "0.0.0.0" for `address`.

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Creating a simple UDP syslog server...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 1
      name: basic_syslog
      type: syslog
      properties:
        port: 514
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

#### Checkpoint

The basic UDP Server can be configured to use a `checkpoint` pre-processing pipeline. This is a pre-processing pipeline that extracts Checkpoint firewall logs from syslog messages:

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Creating a simple UDP syslog server with checkpoint...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 2
      name: basic_syslog
      type: syslog
      tags:
        - "network_device"
      pipelines:
        - checkpoint
      properties:
        address: "10.0.0.1"
        protocol: "udp"
        port: 1514
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

:::note
If the device is a Checkpoint firewall, this pipeline will parse the logs and extract relevant fields for further processing. Otherwise, the pipeline will have no effect on the incoming messages.
:::

### High-Volume

Performance of a UDP server can be enhanced Volumes using multiple workers, a larger buffer size, a larger batch size, and adjusted flush intervals.

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Optimizing for high message volumes...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 3
      name: performant_syslog
      type: syslog
      properties:
        protocol: udp
        port: 514
        reuse: true
        workers: 4
        buffer_size: 32768
        batch_size: 5000
        flush_interval: 5
        queue:
          interval: 2
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

:::note
The worker count will be automatically capped at the maximum number of physical cores available on the system.
:::

### Framing

For a TCP server with custom message framing, use a custom frame delimiter, connection limits, and an idle timeout:

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    TCP server with custom message framing...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 4
      name: tcp_syslog
      type: syslog
      properties:
        protocol: tcp
        port: 1514
        framing: delimiter
        line_delimiter: "\r\n"
        max_connections: 5000
        timeout: 60
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

:::warning
When using TCP with delimiter framing, ensure the `line_delimiter` matches the client side.
:::

### Security

Security can be enhanced using TLS encryption, multiple forward destinations, and mixed protocols:

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Securing the server forwarding the messages...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 5
      name: secure_syslog
      type: syslog
      properties:
        protocol: tcp
        port: 6514
        tls:
          status: true
          cert_name: cert.pem
          key_name: key.pem
        forwarding:
          - address: "10.0.0.1"
            port: 514
            type: udp
          - address: "10.0.0.2"
            port: 6514
            type: tcp
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Forwarding

For message forwarding use network devices with single syslog output. This can also be implemented on legacy systems that need multiple destinations. The messages can be fanned out to different analysis tools.

:::note
Forwarding acts as a message replicator, sending exact copies of incoming messages to all configured destinations unmodified. This is particularly useful for network devices that can only send syslog data to a single destination.
:::

The messages are forwarded exactly as received to the UDP server on port `514`, and the TCP server on ports `1514` and `6514`.

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Forwarding incoming messages to multiple destinations...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 6
      name: forwarder_syslog
      type: syslog
      properties:
        protocol: udp
        port: 514
        forwarding:
          - address: "10.0.0.50"
            port: 514
            type: udp
          - address: "10.0.0.51"
            port: 1514
            type: tcp
          - address: "syslog.example.com"
            port: 6514
            type: tcp
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

:::warning
When using TCP forwarding, ensure the destination servers can handle the connection load as each connection is persistent.
:::

Commit message:

Completed the ECS section of appendix; added links to appendix sections

docs/administration/devices/syslog.mdx, after:

# Syslog

<span class="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Pull</span>

## Synopsis

Creates a Syslog server that accepts log messages over UDP or TCP connections. Supports both plain and TLS-encrypted connections, with configurable framing and buffering options.

:::note
See [**Appendix**](/docs/appendix.mdx#syslog) for details of the format.
:::

## Schema

```yaml
- id: <numeric>
  name: <string>
  description: <string>
  type: syslog
  tags: <string[]>
  pipelines: <pipeline[]>
  status: <boolean>
  properties:
    protocol: <string>
    address: <string>
    port: <numeric>
    framing: <string>
    line_delimiter: <string>
    max_connections: <numeric>
    timeout: <numeric>
    tls:
      status: <boolean>
      cert_name: <string>
      key_name: <string>
    reuse: <boolean>
    workers: <numeric>
    buffer_size: <numeric>
    max_message_size: <numeric>
    flush_interval: <numeric>
    batch_size: <numeric>
    queue:
      interval: <numeric>
    forwarding:
      - address: <string>
        port: <numeric>
        type: <string>
```

## Configuration

The following are the minimum requirements to define the device.

### Device

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`id`|Y||Unique identifier|
|`name`|Y||Device name|
|`description`|N|-|Optional description|
|`type`|Y||Must be `syslog`|
|`tags`|N|-|Optional tags|
|`pipelines`|N|-|Optional pre-processor pipelines|
|`status`|N|`true`|Enable/disable the device|

### Protocol

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`protocol`|N|`"udp"`|Transport protocol (`udp` or `tcp`)|
|`address`|N|`"0.0.0.0"`|Listen address|
|`port`|Y||Listen port|

### TCP

The following are only applicable when `protocol` is set to `tcp`.

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`framing`|N|`"delimiter"`|Framing mode for TCP (`delimiter` or `octet`)|
|`line_delimiter`|N|`"\\n"`|Line separator for TCP delimiter framing|

### TLS

The following are only applicable when `protocol` is set to `tcp`.

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`tls.status`|N|`false`|Enable TLS encryption|
|`tls.cert_name`|Y||TLS certificate file path (required if TLS enabled)|
|`tls.key_name`|Y||TLS private key file path (required if TLS enabled)|

:::note
The TLS certificate and key files must be placed in the service root directory.
:::

## Advanced Configuration

To enhance performance and achieve better data handling, the following settings are used.

### Performance Tuning

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`reuse`|N|`true`|Enable socket address reuse|
|`workers`|N|`<dynamic>`|Number of worker processes when reuse enabled|
|`max_connections`|N|`10000`|Maximum concurrent TCP connections|
|`max_message_size`|N|`20971520`|Maximum message size in bytes (20MB)|
|`timeout`|N|`300`|Connection timeout in seconds|
|`buffer_size`|N|`9000`|Network read buffer size in bytes|

### Message Buffering

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`flush_interval`|N|`1`|Message flush interval in seconds|
|`batch_size`|N|`1000`|Number of messages to batch before flushing|
|`queue.interval`|N|`1`|Queue processing interval in seconds|

### Message Forwarding

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`forwarding[].address`|Y||Forward destination address|
|`forwarding[].port`|N|`514`|Forward destination port|
|`forwarding[].type`|N|`"udp"`|Forward protocol (`udp` or `tcp`)|

## Examples

The following are commonly used configuration types.

### Basic

A basic configuration can be created easily using "udp" for `protocol` and "0.0.0.0" for `address`.

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Creating a simple UDP syslog server...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 1
      name: basic_syslog
      type: syslog
      properties:
        port: 514
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

#### Checkpoint

The basic UDP Server can be configured to use a `checkpoint` pre-processing pipeline. This is a pre-processing pipeline that extracts Checkpoint firewall logs from syslog messages:

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Creating a simple UDP syslog server with checkpoint...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 2
      name: basic_syslog
      type: syslog
      tags:
        - "network_device"
      pipelines:
        - checkpoint
      properties:
        address: "10.0.0.1"
        protocol: "udp"
        port: 1514
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

:::note
If the device is a Checkpoint firewall, this pipeline will parse the logs and extract relevant fields for further processing. Otherwise, the pipeline will have no effect on the incoming messages.
:::

### High-Volume

Performance of a UDP server can be enhanced Volumes using multiple workers, a larger buffer size, a larger batch size, and adjusted flush intervals.

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Optimizing for high message volumes...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 3
      name: performant_syslog
      type: syslog
      properties:
        protocol: udp
        port: 514
        reuse: true
        workers: 4
        buffer_size: 32768
        batch_size: 5000
        flush_interval: 5
        queue:
          interval: 2
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

:::note
The worker count will be automatically capped at the maximum number of physical cores available on the system.
:::

### Framing

For a TCP server with custom message framing, use a custom frame delimiter, connection limits, and an idle timeout:

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    TCP server with custom message framing...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 4
      name: tcp_syslog
      type: syslog
      properties:
        protocol: tcp
        port: 1514
        framing: delimiter
        line_delimiter: "\r\n"
        max_connections: 5000
        timeout: 60
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

:::warning
When using TCP with delimiter framing, ensure the `line_delimiter` matches the client side.
:::

### Security

Security can be enhanced using TLS encryption, multiple forward destinations, and mixed protocols:

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Securing the server forwarding the messages...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 5
      name: secure_syslog
      type: syslog
      properties:
        protocol: tcp
        port: 6514
        tls:
          status: true
          cert_name: cert.pem
          key_name: key.pem
        forwarding:
          - address: "10.0.0.1"
            port: 514
            type: udp
          - address: "10.0.0.2"
            port: 6514
            type: tcp
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Forwarding

For message forwarding use network devices with single syslog output. This can also be implemented on legacy systems that need multiple destinations. The messages can be fanned out to different analysis tools.

:::note
Forwarding acts as a message replicator, sending exact copies of incoming messages to all configured destinations unmodified. This is particularly useful for network devices that can only send syslog data to a single destination.
:::

The messages are forwarded exactly as received to the UDP server on port `514`, and the TCP server on ports `1514` and `6514`.

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Forwarding incoming messages to multiple destinations...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 6
      name: forwarder_syslog
      type: syslog
      properties:
        protocol: udp
        port: 514
        forwarding:
          - address: "10.0.0.50"
            port: 514
            type: udp
          - address: "10.0.0.51"
            port: 1514
            type: tcp
          - address: "syslog.example.com"
            port: 6514
            type: tcp
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

:::warning
When using TCP forwarding, ensure the destination servers can handle the connection load as each connection is persistent.
:::
