docs/administration/targets/elasticsearch.mdx, before:

# Elasticsearch

## Synopsis

```yaml
- id: <numeric>
  name: <string>
  description: <string>
  type: elastic
  status: <boolean>
  properties:
    index: <string>
    max_payload_size_kb: <numeric>
    batch_size: <numeric>
    timeout: <numeric>
    insecure_skip_verify: <boolean>
    use_compression: <boolean>
    version: <string>
    write_action: <string>
    filter_path: <string>
    pipeline: <string>
    endpoints:
      - endpoint: <string>
        username: <string>
        password: <string>
```

## Description

Creates an Elasticsearch target that sends data using the Bulk API. Supports multiple endpoints, authentication, compression, and ingest pipelines. Data is batched for efficient delivery and can be automatically routed to different indices.

## Configuration

The following are the minimum requirements to define the target.

### Target Properties

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`id`|Y|-|Unique identifier|
|`name`|Y|-|Target name|
|`description`|N|-|Optional description|
|`type`|Y|-|Must be `elastic`|
|`status`|N|`true`|Enable/disable the target|

### Elasticsearch Properties

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`index`|Y|-|Default Elasticsearch index name|
|`max_payload_size_kb`|N|`4096`|Maximum bulk request size in KB|
|`batch_size`|N|`10000`|Maximum number of events per batch|
|`timeout`|N|`30`|Connection timeout in seconds|
|`insecure_skip_verify`|N|`false`|Skip TLS certificate verification|
|`use_compression`|N|`true`|Enable GZIP compression|
|`version`|N|`auto`|Elasticsearch version|
|`write_action`|N|`create`|Bulk API action (`index`, `create`, `update`, `delete`)|
|`filter_path`|N|`errors,items.*.error,items.*._index,items.*.status`|Response filter path|
|`pipeline`|N|-|Ingest pipeline name|

### Endpoint Properties

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`endpoint`|Y|-|Elasticsearch URL|
|`username`|N|-|Basic auth username|
|`password`|N|-|Basic auth password|

## Examples

### Basic Configuration

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Simple Elasticsearch output with a single endpoint...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 1
      name: elastic_output
      type: elastic
      properties:
        index: "logs-%Y.%m.%d"
        endpoints:
          - endpoint: "http://elasticsearch:9200"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Secure Configuration

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Secure configuration with authentication and TLS...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 2
      name: secure_elastic
      type: elastic
      properties:
        index: "secure-logs"
        useCompression: true
        endpoints:
          - endpoint: "https://elasticsearch:9200"
            username: "elastic"
            password: "password"
        insecureSkipVerify: false
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Using Ingest Pipeline

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Send data through an ingest pipeline...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 3
      name: pipeline_elastic
      type: elastic
      properties:
        index: "processed-logs"
        pipeline: "log-processor"
        writeAction: "create"
        endpoints:
          - endpoint: "http://elasticsearch:9200"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### High-Volume Configuration

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Optimized for high-volume data ingestion...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 4
      name: highvol_elastic
      type: elastic
      properties:
        index: "metrics"
        batchSize: 20000
        maxPayloadSizeKB: 8192
        useCompression: true
        timeout: 60
        endpoints:
          - endpoint: "http://es1:9200"
          - endpoint: "http://es2:9200"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

:::note
- URLs are automatically appended with `/_bulk` if not present
- Events are batched until either the batch size or payload size limit is reached
- Events are automatically spread across multiple endpoints for load balancing
:::

:::warning
- Setting `maxPayloadSizeKB` too high might cause memory pressure
- Long `timeout` values may lead to connection pooling issues
- Using `insecureSkipVerify: true` in production is not recommended
:::

Commit message:

Target proofs completed, pipeline type details added, tutorials disabled

docs/administration/targets/elasticsearch.mdx, after:

# Elasticsearch

## Synopsis

```yaml
- id: <numeric>
  name: <string>
  description: <string>
  type: elastic
  status: <boolean>
  properties:
    index: <string>
    max_payload_size_kb: <numeric>
    batch_size: <numeric>
    timeout: <numeric>
    insecure_skip_verify: <boolean>
    use_compression: <boolean>
    version: <string>
    write_action: <string>
    filter_path: <string>
    pipeline: <string>
    endpoints:
      - endpoint: <string>
        username: <string>
        password: <string>
```

## Description

Creates an Elasticsearch target that sends data using the Bulk API. Supports multiple endpoints, authentication, compression, and ingest pipelines. Data is batched for efficient delivery and can be automatically routed to different indeces.

## Configuration

The following are the minimum requirements to define the target.

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`id`|Y|-|Unique identifier|
|`name`|Y|-|Target name|
|`description`|N|-|Optional description|
|`type`|Y|-|Must be `elastic`|
|`status`|N|`true`|Enable/disable the target|

### Elasticsearch

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`index`|Y|-|Default Elasticsearch index name|
|`max_payload_size_kb`|N|`4096`|Maximum bulk request size in KB|
|`batch_size`|N|`10000`|Maximum number of events per batch|
|`timeout`|N|`30`|Connection timeout in seconds|
|`insecure_skip_verify`|N|`false`|Skip TLS certificate verification|
|`use_compression`|N|`true`|Enable GZIP compression|
|`version`|N|`auto`|Elasticsearch version|
|`write_action`|N|`create`|Bulk API action (`index`, `create`, `update`, `delete`)|
|`filter_path`|N|`errors,items.*.error,items.*._index,items.*.status`|Response filter path|
|`pipeline`|N|-|Ingest pipeline name|

### Endpoint

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`endpoint`|Y|-|Elasticsearch URL|
|`username`|N|-|Basic auth username|
|`password`|N|-|Basic auth password|

## Details

URLs are automatically appended with `/_bulk` if the suffix is not present. Events are batched until either the batch size or payload size limit is reached. 

For load balancing, events are automatically spread across multiple endpoints.

## Examples

### Basic

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Simple Elasticsearch output with a single endpoint...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 1
      name: elastic_output
      type: elastic
      properties:
        index: "logs-%Y.%m.%d"
        endpoints:
          - endpoint: "http://elasticsearch:9200"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Secure

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Secure configuration with authentication and TLS...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 2
      name: secure_elastic
      type: elastic
      properties:
        index: "secure-logs"
        use_compression: true
        endpoints:
          - endpoint: "https://elasticsearch:9200"
            username: "elastic"
            password: "password"
        insecure_skip_verify: false
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

:::warning
In production environments, setting `insecure_skip_verify` to `true` is not recommended.
:::

### Ingest Pipeline

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Send data through an ingest pipeline...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 3
      name: pipeline_elastic
      type: elastic
      properties:
        index: "processed-logs"
        pipeline: "log-processor"
        write_action: "create"
        endpoints:
          - endpoint: "http://elasticsearch:9200"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### High-Volume

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Optimized for high-volume data ingestion...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - id: 4
      name: highvol_elastic
      type: elastic
      properties:
        index: "metrics"
        batch_size: 20000
        max_payload_size_kb: 8192
        use_compression: true
        timeout: 60
        endpoints:
          - endpoint: "http://es1:9200"
          - endpoint: "http://es2:9200"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

:::warning
Long `timeout` values may lead to connection pooling issues.
:::

:::warning
Setting `max_payload_size_kb` too high might cause memory pressure.
:::
