docs/administration/targets/quick-start.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Quick Start
---

# Targets: Quick Start

This guide will walk you through configuring your first target in **Director**, to illustrate various output options available for your log data.

## Configuration

Targets use the configuration files with `.yml` extensions in the `config` directory under the root, e.g.

* `<vm_root>/config/targets.yml`
* `<vm_root>/config/targets/outputs.yml`
* `<vm_root>/config/target/outputs/sentinel.yml`

**Director** searches recursively through the directory to spot these files. Choose the organization that best fits your needs.

## Console

Create a console configuration for a simple `stdout` output, e.g.:

```yaml title="config/targets/console.yml"
- id: 1
  name: debug_output
  type: console
  properties:             
    format: "ecs"
```

Here, `1` is the unique identifier of the target, `console` is its type, and we intend to normalize the data to the ECS format, although this is optional.

## Files

Various file formats are available for local storage.

* The ever-present **JSON** format is supported:

  ```yaml title="config/targets/file.yml"
  - id: 2
    name: local_logs
    type: file
    properties:
      location: "/var/log/vmetric"
      type: "json"
      name: "logs_{{.Year}}_{{.Month}}_{{.Day}}.json"
  ```

* For more efficient results, the **Parquet** format can be used:

  ```yaml
  - id: 3
    name: structured_logs
    type: file
    properties:
      location: "/var/log/vmetric"
      type: "parquet"
      compression: "zstd"
      schema: |
        {
          "timestamp": {
            "type": "INT",
            "bitWidth": 64,
            "signed": true
          },
          "message": {
            "type": "STRING",
            "compression": "ZSTD"
          }
        }
  ```

:::note
File targets with no messages are automatically cleaned up when disposed.
:::

## Cloud

Cloud storage formats are also readily available.

* **Azure Blob** can be configured for output:

  ```yaml title="config/targets/azblob.yml"
  - id: 4
    name: cloud_logs
    type: azblob
    properties:
      account: "mystorageaccount"
      tenant_id: "${AZURE_TENANT_ID}"
      client_id: "${AZURE_CLIENT_ID}"
      client_secret: "${AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET}"
      container: "logs"
      type: "parquet"
      compression: "zstd"
      max_size: 536870912  # 512MB
  ```

* **Microsoft Sentinel** with ASIM normalization can be used:

  ```yaml title="config/targets/sentinel.yml"
  - id: 5
    name: sentinel_logs
    type: sentinel
    properties:
      tenant_id: "${AZURE_TENANT_ID}"
      client_id: "${AZURE_CLIENT_ID}"
      client_secret: "${AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET}"
      rule_id: "${DCR_RULE_ID}"
      endpoint: "${DCR_ENDPOINT}"
      stream:
        - "Custom-ASimProcessEventLogs"
        - "Custom-ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
  ```

## Performance

For high-volume environments

* With files, enable buffering and use compression:

  ```yaml
      no_buffer: false
      compression: "zstd"
  ```

* For _Azure Blob_, increase the number of retry attempts and the retry interval, and use **512MB** chunks:

  ```yaml
      max_retry: 10
      retry_interval: 30
      max_size: 536870912
  ```

* For _Microsoft Sentinel_, a **5MB** buffer is recommended:

  ```yaml
      buffer_size: 5242880
  ```

## Monitoring

Watch Director's logs for target initialization messages, upload/ingestion status, and buffers and retries.

:::tip
Use environment variables for sensitive credentials, and adjust buffer sizes based on your ingestion volume.
:::

:::warning[caution]
When deploying in production environments, always implement appropriate security controls, and monitor storage capacity.
:::

## Next Steps

In addition to the above, it is good practice to set up data transformation pipelines, configure multiple targets for redundancy, implement custom normalization rules, and put in place alerts.

Commit message:

Edited, merged, and extended the pipelines quick start. Edited targets quick start

docs/administration/targets/quick-start.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Quick Start
---

# Targets: Quick Start

This guide will walk you through configuring your first target in **Director**, to illustrate various output options available for your log data.

## Configuration

Targets use the configuration files with `.yml` extensions in the `config` directory under the root, e.g.

* `<vm_root>/config/targets.yml`
* `<vm_root>/config/targets/outputs.yml`
* `<vm_root>/config/target/outputs/sentinel.yml`

**Director** searches recursively through the directory to spot these files. Choose the organization that best fits your needs.

## Console

Create a console configuration for a simple `stdout` output, e.g.:

```yaml title="config/targets/console.yml"
- id: 1
  name: debug_output
  type: console
  properties:             
    format: "ecs"
```

Here, `1` is the unique identifier of the target, `console` is its type, and we intend to normalize the data to the ECS format, although this is optional.

## Files

Various file formats are available for local storage.

* The ever-present **JSON** format is supported:

  ```yaml title="config/targets/file.yml"
  - id: 2
    name: local_logs
    type: file
    properties:
      location: "/var/log/vmetric"
      type: "json"
      name: "logs_{{.Year}}_{{.Month}}_{{.Day}}.json"
  ```

* For more efficient results, the **Parquet** format can be used:

  ```yaml
  - id: 3
    name: structured_logs
    type: file
    properties:
      location: "/var/log/vmetric"
      type: "parquet"
      compression: "zstd"
      schema: |
        {
          "timestamp": {
            "type": "INT",
            "bitWidth": 64,
            "signed": true
          },
          "message": {
            "type": "STRING",
            "compression": "ZSTD"
          }
        }
  ```

:::note
File targets with no messages are automatically cleaned up when disposed.
:::

## Cloud

Cloud storage formats are also readily available.

* **Azure Blob** can be configured for output:

  ```yaml title="config/targets/azblob.yml"
  - id: 4
    name: cloud_logs
    type: azblob
    properties:
      account: "mystorageaccount"
      tenant_id: "${AZURE_TENANT_ID}"
      client_id: "${AZURE_CLIENT_ID}"
      client_secret: "${AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET}"
      container: "logs"
      type: "parquet"
      compression: "zstd"
      max_size: 536870912  # 512MB
  ```

* **Microsoft Sentinel** with ASIM normalization can be used:

  ```yaml title="config/targets/sentinel.yml"
  - id: 5
    name: sentinel_logs
    type: sentinel
    properties:
      tenant_id: "${AZURE_TENANT_ID}"
      client_id: "${AZURE_CLIENT_ID}"
      client_secret: "${AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET}"
      rule_id: "${DCR_RULE_ID}"
      endpoint: "${DCR_ENDPOINT}"
      stream:
        - "Custom-ASimProcessEventLogs"
        - "Custom-ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
  ```

## Performance

For high-volume environments

* With files, enable buffering and use compression:

  ```yaml
      no_buffer: false
      compression: "zstd"
  ```

* For _Azure Blob_, increase the number of retry attempts and the retry interval, and use **512MB** chunks:

  ```yaml
      max_retry: 10
      retry_interval: 30
      max_size: 536870912
  ```

* For _Microsoft Sentinel_, a **5MB** buffer is recommended:

  ```yaml
      buffer_size: 5242880
  ```

## Monitoring

Watch Director's logs for target initialization messages, upload/ingestion status, and buffers and retries.

:::tip
Use environment variables for sensitive credentials, and adjust buffer sizes based on your ingestion volume.
:::

:::warning[caution]
When deploying in production environments, always implement appropriate security controls, and monitor storage capacity.
:::

## Next Steps

You can now consider

- configuring multiple targets for redundancy
- implementing custom normalization rules
- putting alerts in place for notifications and error handling

to complete the process.
