docs/administration/targets/syslog.mdx, before:

# Syslog

<span class="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Forward</span>

## Synopsis

Creates a target that forwards log messages to a remote syslog server. Supports multiple transport protocols, message templating, and TLS encryption.

:::note
The syslog target uses the RFC5424 format for all messages, ensuring modern syslog compatibility.
:::

## Schema

```yaml
- id: <numeric>
  name: <string>
  description: <string>
  type: syslog
  pipelines: <pipeline[]>
  status: <boolean>
  properties:
    type: <string>
    address: <string>
    port: <numeric>
    format: <string>
    template: <string>
    app_name: <string>
    priority: <numeric>
    tls:
      status: <boolean>
      verify: <boolean>
      cert_name: <string>
      key_name: <string>
```

## Configuration

The following are the minimum requirements to define the target.

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`id`|Y||Unique identifier|
|`name`|Y||Target name|
|`description`|N|-|Optional description|
|`type`|Y||Must be `syslog`|
|`pipelines`|N|-|Optional post-processor pipelines|
|`status`|N|`true`|Enable/disable the target|

### Connection

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`type`|N|`"udp"`|Transport protocol: `udp`, `tcp`, or `tls`|
|`address`|N|`"127.0.0.1"`|Remote server address|
|`port`|N|`514`|Remote server port|

### Messages

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`template`|N|`"<{{.Priority}}> {{.Timestamp}} {{.AppName}}[{{.PID}}]: {{.Message}}"`|Message template|
|`app_name`|N|`"vmetric"`|Application name in the messages|
|`priority`|N|`14`|Syslog priority value|
|`format`|N|-|Field normalization format: `ecs`, `cim`, `asim`, `cef`, `leef`, `csl`|

### TLS

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`tls.status`|N|`false`|Enable TLS encryption|
|`tls.verify`|N|`false`|Verify server certificate|
|`tls.cert_name`|N|`"cert.pem"`|Client certificate file|
|`tls.key_name`|N|`"key.pem"`|Client private key file|

:::warning
When using TLS, ensure that the certificate files are accessible and have the appropriate permissions.
:::

### Templates

The following variables can be used in the message template:

|Variable|Description|Example|
|---|---|---|
|`{{.Year}}`|Current year|`2024`|
|`{{.Month}}`|Current month|`01`|
|`{{.Day}}`|Current day|`15`|
|`{{.Priority}}`|Syslog priority|`14`|
|`{{.Timestamp}}`|RFC3339 timestamp|`2024-01-15T14:30:00Z`|
|`{{.AppName}}`|Application name|`vmetric`|
|`{{.PID}}`|Process ID|`1234`|
|`{{.Message}}`|Log message|`User login successful`|

:::note
Invalid templates will fall back to sending the raw message content without formatting.
:::

## Examples

### Basic UDP

The minimum configuration for a UDP syslog:

```yaml
- id: 1
  name: udp_syslog
  type: syslog
  properties:
    address: "192.168.1.100"
```

### Secure TLS

Configuration for a TLS-encrypted syslog:

```yaml
- id: 2
  name: secure_syslog
  type: syslog
  properties:
    type: "tls"
    address: "logs.example.com"
    port: 6514
    tls:
      status: true
      verify: true
      cert_name: "client-cert.pem"
      key_name: "client-key.pem"
```

### Template

Configuration with a custom message template:

```yaml
- id: 3
  name: custom_syslog
  type: syslog
  properties:
    address: "192.168.1.100"
    template: "{{.Timestamp}} [{{.AppName}}] severity={{.Priority}} {{.Message}}"
    app_name: "myapp"
    priority: 13
```

Commit message:

Completed the ECS section of appendix; added links to appendix sections

docs/administration/targets/syslog.mdx, after:

# Syslog

<span class="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Forward</span>

## Synopsis

Creates a target that forwards log messages to a remote syslog server. Supports multiple transport protocols, message templating, and TLS encryption.

:::note
The syslog target uses the RFC5424 format for all messages, ensuring modern syslog compatibility.
:::

:::note
See [**Appendix**](/docs/appendix.mdx#syslog) for details of the format.
:::

## Schema

```yaml
- id: <numeric>
  name: <string>
  description: <string>
  type: syslog
  pipelines: <pipeline[]>
  status: <boolean>
  properties:
    type: <string>
    address: <string>
    port: <numeric>
    format: <string>
    template: <string>
    app_name: <string>
    priority: <numeric>
    tls:
      status: <boolean>
      verify: <boolean>
      cert_name: <string>
      key_name: <string>
```

## Configuration

The following are the minimum requirements to define the target.

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`id`|Y||Unique identifier|
|`name`|Y||Target name|
|`description`|N|-|Optional description|
|`type`|Y||Must be `syslog`|
|`pipelines`|N|-|Optional post-processor pipelines|
|`status`|N|`true`|Enable/disable the target|

### Connection

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`type`|N|`"udp"`|Transport protocol: `udp`, `tcp`, or `tls`|
|`address`|N|`"127.0.0.1"`|Remote server address|
|`port`|N|`514`|Remote server port|

### Messages

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`template`|N|`"<{{.Priority}}> {{.Timestamp}} {{.AppName}}[{{.PID}}]: {{.Message}}"`|Message template|
|`app_name`|N|`"vmetric"`|Application name in the messages|
|`priority`|N|`14`|Syslog priority value|
|`format`|N|-|Field normalization format: `ecs`, `cim`, `asim`, `cef`, `leef`, `csl`|

### TLS

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`tls.status`|N|`false`|Enable TLS encryption|
|`tls.verify`|N|`false`|Verify server certificate|
|`tls.cert_name`|N|`"cert.pem"`|Client certificate file|
|`tls.key_name`|N|`"key.pem"`|Client private key file|

:::warning
When using TLS, ensure that the certificate files are accessible and have the appropriate permissions.
:::

### Templates

The following variables can be used in the message template:

|Variable|Description|Example|
|---|---|---|
|`{{.Year}}`|Current year|`2024`|
|`{{.Month}}`|Current month|`01`|
|`{{.Day}}`|Current day|`15`|
|`{{.Priority}}`|Syslog priority|`14`|
|`{{.Timestamp}}`|RFC3339 timestamp|`2024-01-15T14:30:00Z`|
|`{{.AppName}}`|Application name|`vmetric`|
|`{{.PID}}`|Process ID|`1234`|
|`{{.Message}}`|Log message|`User login successful`|

:::note
Invalid templates will fall back to sending the raw message content without formatting.
:::

## Examples

### Basic UDP

The minimum configuration for a UDP syslog:

```yaml
- id: 1
  name: udp_syslog
  type: syslog
  properties:
    address: "192.168.1.100"
```

### Secure TLS

Configuration for a TLS-encrypted syslog:

```yaml
- id: 2
  name: secure_syslog
  type: syslog
  properties:
    type: "tls"
    address: "logs.example.com"
    port: 6514
    tls:
      status: true
      verify: true
      cert_name: "client-cert.pem"
      key_name: "client-key.pem"
```

### Template

Configuration with a custom message template:

```yaml
- id: 3
  name: custom_syslog
  type: syslog
  properties:
    address: "192.168.1.100"
    template: "{{.Timestamp}} [{{.AppName}}] severity={{.Priority}} {{.Message}}"
    app_name: "myapp"
    priority: 13
```
