docs/configuration/pipelines/handling-failures.mdx, before:

# Handling Failures

The processors in a pipeline run sequentially, and when one of them fails or encounters an error, by default the process halts.

The `on_failure` processor can be used to specify a list of processors to run immediately after a processor fails. However, **Director** keeps running the pipeline's remaining processors even if the `on_failure` field is blank.

## Recovery

To ignore a failure and keep running the remaining processors in the pipeline, `ignore_failure` must be set to `true`.

```yaml
- rename:
    field: provider
    target_field: cloud.provider
    ignore_failure: true
```

## Continuation

To configure a processor so that in the event of a failure another processor runs, the `on_failure` parameter can be used.

```yaml
- rename:
    field: foo
    target_field: bar
    on_failure: 
      - set:
          field: error.message
          value: "Field 'foo' could not be renamed as 'bar'"
          override: false
```

## Nesting

For cascading errors, multiple `on_failure` processors can be nested.

```yaml
- rename:
    field: foo
    target_field: bar
    on_failure:
      - set:
          field: error.message
          value: "Field 'foo' could not be renamed as 'bar'"
          override: false
          on_failure:
            - set:
                field: error.message.cascade
                value: "Multiple errors encountered"
                override: true
```

## Pipelines

The `on_failure` option can also be specified for the pipeline. When a processor fails, in the absence of a processor-level `on_failure` setting, **DataStream** uses the pipeline-level setting as a fallback. However, in that case it does not attempt to run the remaining processors.

```yaml
pipelines:
  - name: routine_process
    on_failure:
      - set:
          field: _index
          value: failed-{{{ _ingest.on_failure_processor_tag }}}
          description: "Processor failed"
```

## Metadata

More information may be available in the metadata fields `on_failure_message`, `on_failure_processor_type`, `on_failure_processor_tag`, and `on_failure_pipeline` which can only be accessed from within an `on_failure` block.

```yaml
pipelines:
  - name: routine_process
    on_failure:
      - set:
          field: error_info
          value: "{{ _ingest.on_failure_processor_type }} in {{ _ingest.on_failure_pipeline }} failed; error message: {{ _ingest.on_failure_message }}"
```

Commit message:

Enhance documentation for handling failures and Microsoft Sentinel integration, improving clarity and structure.

docs/configuration/pipelines/handling-failures.mdx, after:

# Handling Failures

The processors in a pipeline run sequentially. When a processor fails or encounters an error, **DataStream** looks for an `on_failure` handler at that processor level. If none is found, the error propagates to the pipeline level, then up through any parent pipelines until an `on_failure` handler is found. If no handler is found at any level, a default error handler drops the entry without interrupting the pipeline's operation.

The `on_failure` field specifies a list of processors to run immediately after a processor fails, enabling controlled error recovery and logging without stopping the entire pipeline.

## Recovery

To ignore a failure and keep running the remaining processors in the pipeline, `ignore_failure` must be set to `true`.

```yaml
- rename:
    field: provider
    target_field: cloud.provider
    ignore_failure: true
```

Alternatively, the `recover` processor can be used within an `on_failure` handler to signal error recovery. When used, it allows the parent pipeline to continue processing without treating the error as a failure.

```yaml
- pipeline:
    name: risky_operation
    on_failure:
      - recover:
          description: "Recover from risky operation failure"
```

Unlike `ignore_failure: true` which silently ignores errors, `recover` allows you to execute error handling logic (such as logging or setting error fields) before signaling that the error has been handled and the parent pipeline should continue.

## Continuation

To configure a processor so that in the event of a failure another processor runs, the `on_failure` parameter can be used.

```yaml
- rename:
    field: foo
    target_field: bar
    on_failure: 
      - set:
          field: error.message
          value: "Field 'foo' could not be renamed as 'bar'"
          override: false
```

## Nesting

For cascading errors, multiple `on_failure` processors can be nested.

```yaml
- rename:
    field: foo
    target_field: bar
    on_failure:
      - set:
          field: error.message
          value: "Field 'foo' could not be renamed as 'bar'"
          override: false
          on_failure:
            - set:
                field: error.message.cascade
                value: "Multiple errors encountered"
                override: true
```

## Pipelines

The `on_failure` option can be specified at the pipeline level. When a processor fails without its own `on_failure` handler, the error propagates to the pipeline's `on_failure` handler. If the pipeline is nested within another pipeline, and no `on_failure` handler is found, the error continues propagating up through parent pipelines until a handler is found.

```yaml
pipelines:
  - name: routine_process
    on_failure:
      - set:
          field: _index
          value: failed-{{ _ingest.on_failure_processor_tag }}
          description: "Processor failed"
```

## Metadata

More information is available in the metadata fields `_ingest.on_failure_message`, `_ingest.on_failure_processor_type`, `_ingest.on_failure_processor_tag`, and `_ingest.on_failure_pipeline` which can only be accessed from within an `on_failure` block.

```yaml
pipelines:
  - name: routine_process
    on_failure:
      - set:
          field: error_info
          value: "{{ _ingest.on_failure_processor_type }} in {{ _ingest.on_failure_pipeline }} failed; error message: {{ _ingest.on_failure_message }}"
```

## Default Error Handler

If no `on_failure` handler is found at any level—processor, pipeline, or parent pipelines—**DataStream** applies a default error handler that drops the failed entry. This prevents a single failure from interrupting the entire pipeline's operation.

```yaml
# Default behavior applied automatically when no on_failure is specified
on_failure:
  - drop:
      description: "Drop entry on failure"
```

To customize error handling, specify an `on_failure` handler at any level. The error will be caught by the first handler encountered during propagation.
