docs/configuration/pipelines/multi-tier-pipelines.mdx, before:

# Multi-Tier Pipelines

Multi-tier pipelines solve a common challenge in telemetry processing: sending the same data to multiple destinations that require different normalization levels, without duplicating events at each tier.

## The Data Duplication Problem

Consider a firewall log that needs to reach three destinations:

1. **Raw archive** - Original Syslog format for compliance
2. **SIEM analysis** - Common Security Log (CSL) format for correlation
3. **Microsoft Sentinel** - ASIM NetworkSession format for advanced analytics

A naive approach routes the event three times, creating three copies flowing through the pipeline. With high-volume sources, this multiplies ingestion costs and processing overhead.

## Staged Routes

DataStream solves this with staged routing. Instead of immediately sending events to destinations, the <Topic id="processors-reroute">reroute</Topic> processor can stage them for later commit. Each subsequent stage to the same destination overwrites the previous version, ensuring only the final, most-normalized form is delivered.

```yaml
processors:
  # Stage 1: Route raw format
  - reroute:
      destination: "archive"
      staging: true

  # Stage 2: Normalize to CSL, overwrite archive stage
  - normalize:
      target_format: csl
  - reroute:
      destination: "siem"
      staging: true

  # Stage 3: Normalize to ASIM, overwrite SIEM stage
  - normalize:
      target_format: asim
      schema: "NetworkSession"
  - reroute:
      destination: "sentinel"
      staging: true

  # Commit all staged routes
  - commit:
```

The result: three destinations receive appropriately normalized data from a single event traversal.

## How Staging Works

When `staging: true` is set on a `reroute` processor:

1. The event is stored in a staging area keyed by destination name
2. Subsequent staged routes to the same destination overwrite the previous staged version
3. The <Topic id="processors-commit">commit</Topic> processor moves all staged events to their final destinations
4. Without commit, staged events are discarded at pipeline end

This overwrite behavior is the key innovation—progressive normalization naturally produces the best version for each tier.

## Configuration Patterns

### Progressive Normalization

Transform data through increasing normalization tiers:

```yaml
processors:
  # Parse raw syslog
  - syslog:
      field: "message"
      target: "parsed"
  - reroute:
      destination: "raw_lake"
      table: "Syslog"
      staging: true

  # Normalize to CSL
  - normalize:
      target_format: csl
  - reroute:
      destination: "sentinel"
      table: "CommonSecurityLog"
      staging: true

  # Normalize to ASIM
  - normalize:
      target_format: asim
      schema: "NetworkSession"
  - reroute:
      destination: "sentinel"
      table: "ASimNetworkSession"
      staging: true

  # Final commit
  - commit:
```

### Conditional Tier Selection

Use <Topic id="processors-check-schema">check_schema</Topic> validation to determine the highest achievable normalization tier:

```yaml
processors:
  # Attempt ASIM normalization
  - normalize:
      target_format: asim
      schema: "NetworkSession"
  - check_schema:
      schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
      target_field: "asim_check"
      check_mode: "missing"

  # Stage ASIM if valid
  - reroute:
      if: "asim_check.is_valid == true"
      destination: "sentinel"
      table: "ASimNetworkSession"
      staging: true

  # Fall back to CSL if ASIM validation fails
  - normalize:
      if: "asim_check.is_valid == false"
      target_format: csl
  - reroute:
      if: "asim_check.is_valid == false"
      destination: "sentinel"
      table: "CommonSecurityLog"
      staging: true

  - commit:
```

### Dynamic Staging Control

Use template expressions to conditionally enable staging:

```yaml
processors:
  - reroute:
      destination: "sentinel"
      table: "{{ .target_table }}"
      staging: "{{ .requires_further_processing }}"
```

### Selective Commit

Commit specific destinations rather than all staged routes:

```yaml
processors:
  # Multiple staged routes...

  # Commit only sentinel destination
  - commit:
      destination: "sentinel"

  # Continue processing for other destinations
  - enrich:
      # Additional enrichment...

  # Commit remaining destinations
  - commit:
```

## Destination Metadata

The `reroute` processor supports destination-specific metadata fields that targets use for routing and organization:

|Field|Description|Common Targets|
|---|---|---|
|`table`|Database table or collection name|Sentinel, Data Explorer, databases|
|`index`|Search index name|Elasticsearch, Splunk|
|`schema`|Schema identifier|ASIM tables, OCSF categories|
|`bucket`|Storage bucket name|S3, Blob Storage, GCS|
|`container`|Storage container name|Azure Blob Storage|
|`stream`|Data stream identifier|Kinesis, Event Hubs|
|`topic`|Message topic name|Kafka, Pub/Sub|
|`log_type`|Log type classifier|Chronicle, various SIEMs|
|`namespace`|Namespace identifier|Kubernetes logs, multi-tenant systems|

Example with multiple metadata fields:

```yaml
processors:
  - reroute:
      destination: "sentinel"
      table: "ASimNetworkSession"
      schema: "NetworkSession"
      staging: true
```

## Clone Mode

When you need to send both the current state and a later state to different destinations, use the `clone` option to preserve the original routing while continuing processing:

```yaml
processors:
  # Send raw to archive immediately (no staging)
  - reroute:
      destination: "archive"
      clone: true

  # Continue processing - original routing preserved
  - normalize:
      target_format: asim
  - reroute:
      destination: "sentinel"
```

With `clone: true`, the reroute sends a copy while preserving the original destination metadata for subsequent processors.

## Integration with Schema Drift Detection

Multi-tier pipelines pair naturally with <Topic id="pipelines-schema-drift-detection">schema drift detection</Topic> to ensure each tier receives valid, properly normalized data:

```yaml
processors:
  # Stage raw
  - reroute:
      destination: "raw"
      staging: true

  # Normalize and validate CSL
  - normalize:
      target_format: csl
  - check_schema:
      schema: "CommonSecurityLog"
      target_field: "csl_check"
      on_missing:
        - slack:
            title: "CSL Schema Drift"
            message: "Missing: {{ .csl_check.missing_required_fields }}"
  - reroute:
      if: "csl_check.is_valid == true"
      destination: "siem"
      staging: true

  # Normalize and validate ASIM
  - normalize:
      target_format: asim
  - check_schema:
      schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
      target_field: "asim_check"
      on_missing:
        - pagerduty:
            summary: "ASIM schema drift detected"
            severity: "warning"
  - reroute:
      if: "asim_check.is_valid == true"
      destination: "sentinel"
      staging: true

  - commit:
```

This pattern ensures only valid data reaches each destination while alerting on schema drift at any tier.

Commit message:

Audit the new chapters for schema drift and multi-tier pipelines.

docs/configuration/pipelines/multi-tier-pipelines.mdx, after:

# Multi-Tier Pipelines

Multi-tier pipelines solve a common challenge in telemetry processing: sending the same data to multiple destinations that require different normalization levels, without duplicating events at each tier.

## The Data Duplication Problem

Consider a firewall log that needs to reach three destinations:

1. **Raw archive** - Original Syslog format for compliance
2. **SIEM analysis** - Common Security Log (CSL) format for correlation
3. **Microsoft Sentinel** - ASIM NetworkSession format for advanced analytics

A naive approach routes the event three times, creating three copies flowing through the pipeline. With high-volume sources, this multiplies ingestion costs and processing overhead.

## Staged Routes

**DataStream** solves this with staged routing. Instead of immediately sending events to destinations, the <Topic id="processors-reroute">reroute</Topic> processor can stage them for later commit. Each subsequent stage to the same destination overwrites the previous version, ensuring only the final, most-normalized form is delivered.

```yaml
processors:
  # Stage 1: Route raw format
  - reroute:
      destination: "archive"
      staging: true

  # Stage 2: Normalize to CSL, overwrite archive stage
  - normalize:
      target_format: csl
  - reroute:
      destination: "siem"
      staging: true

  # Stage 3: Normalize to ASIM, overwrite SIEM stage
  - normalize:
      target_format: asim
  - reroute:
      destination: "sentinel"
      staging: true

  # Commit all staged routes
  - commit:
```

The result: three destinations receive appropriately normalized data from a single event traversal.

## How Staging Works

When `staging: true` is set on a `reroute` processor:

1. The event is stored in a staging area keyed by destination name
2. Subsequent staged routes to the same destination overwrite the previous staged version
3. The <Topic id="processors-commit">commit</Topic> processor moves all staged events to their final destinations
4. Without commit, staged events are discarded at pipeline end

This overwrite behavior is the key innovation—progressive normalization naturally produces the best version for each tier.

## Configuration Patterns

### Progressive Normalization

Transform data through increasing normalization tiers:

```yaml
processors:
  # Parse raw syslog
  - syslog:
      field: "message"
      target: "parsed"
  - reroute:
      destination: "raw_lake"
      table: "Syslog"
      staging: true

  # Normalize to CSL
  - normalize:
      target_format: csl
  - reroute:
      destination: "sentinel"
      table: "CommonSecurityLog"
      staging: true

  # Normalize to ASIM
  - normalize:
      target_format: asim
  - reroute:
      destination: "sentinel"
      table: "ASimNetworkSession"
      staging: true

  # Final commit
  - commit:
```

### Conditional Tier Selection

Use <Topic id="processors-check-schema">check_schema</Topic> validation to determine the highest achievable normalization tier:

```yaml
processors:
  # Attempt ASIM normalization
  - normalize:
      target_format: asim
  - check_schema:
      schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
      target_field: "asim_check"
      check_mode: "missing"

  # Stage ASIM if valid
  - reroute:
      if: "asim_check.is_valid == true"
      destination: "sentinel"
      table: "ASimNetworkSession"
      staging: true

  # Fall back to CSL if ASIM validation fails
  - normalize:
      if: "asim_check.is_valid == false"
      target_format: csl
  - reroute:
      if: "asim_check.is_valid == false"
      destination: "sentinel"
      table: "CommonSecurityLog"
      staging: true

  - commit:
```

### Dynamic Staging Control

Use template expressions to conditionally enable staging:

```yaml
processors:
  - reroute:
      destination: "sentinel"
      table: "{{ .target_table }}"
      staging: "{{ .requires_further_processing }}"
```

### Selective Commit

Commit specific destinations rather than all staged routes:

```yaml
processors:
  # Multiple staged routes...

  # Commit only sentinel destination
  - commit:
      destination: "sentinel"

  # Continue processing for other destinations
  - enrich:
      # Additional enrichment...

  # Commit remaining destinations
  - commit:
```

## Destination Metadata

The `reroute` processor supports destination-specific metadata fields that targets use for routing and organization:

|Field|Description|Common Targets|
|---|---|---|
|`table`|Database table or collection name|Sentinel, Data Explorer, databases|
|`index`|Search index name|Elasticsearch, Splunk|
|`schema`|Schema identifier|ASIM tables, OCSF categories|
|`bucket`|Storage bucket name|S3, Blob Storage, GCS|
|`container`|Storage container name|Azure Blob Storage|
|`stream`|Data stream identifier|Kinesis, Event Hubs|
|`topic`|Message topic name|Kafka, Pub/Sub|
|`log_type`|Log type classifier|Chronicle, various SIEMs|
|`namespace`|Namespace identifier|Kubernetes logs, multi-tenant systems|

Example with multiple metadata fields:

```yaml
processors:
  - reroute:
      destination: "sentinel"
      table: "ASimNetworkSession"
      schema: "NetworkSession"
      staging: true
```

## Clone Mode

When you need to send both the current state and a later state to different destinations, use the `clone` option to preserve the original routing while continuing processing:

```yaml
processors:
  # Send raw to archive immediately (no staging)
  - reroute:
      destination: "archive"
      clone: true

  # Continue processing - original routing preserved
  - normalize:
      target_format: asim
  - reroute:
      destination: "sentinel"
```

With `clone: true`, the reroute sends a copy while preserving the original destination metadata for subsequent processors.

## Integration with Schema Drift Detection

Multi-tier pipelines pair naturally with <Topic id="pipelines-schema-drift-detection">schema drift detection</Topic> to ensure each tier receives valid, properly normalized data:

```yaml
processors:
  # Stage raw
  - reroute:
      destination: "raw"
      staging: true

  # Normalize and validate CSL
  - normalize:
      target_format: csl
  - check_schema:
      schema: "CommonSecurityLog"
      target_field: "csl_check"
      check_mode: "missing"
      on_missing:
        - slack:
            title: "CSL Schema Drift"
            message: "Missing: {{ .csl_check.missing_required_fields }}"
  - reroute:
      if: "csl_check.is_valid == true"
      destination: "siem"
      staging: true

  # Normalize and validate ASIM
  - normalize:
      target_format: asim
  - check_schema:
      schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
      target_field: "asim_check"
      check_mode: "missing"
      on_missing:
        - pagerduty:
            summary: "ASIM schema drift detected"
            severity: "warning"
  - reroute:
      if: "asim_check.is_valid == true"
      destination: "sentinel"
      staging: true

  - commit:
```

This pattern ensures only valid data reaches each destination while alerting on schema drift at any tier.
