docs/configuration/pipelines/schema-drift-detection.mdx, before:

# Schema Drift Detection

Schema drift occurs when vendors change their log formats without warning—field names shift, structures reorganize, or data types change. These silent changes break normalization pipelines that continue running as if nothing happened, causing data quality issues downstream.

## The Challenge

Organizations ingesting logs from multiple vendors face a critical question: what happens when a vendor changes their field names or log structure? Without detection mechanisms, pipelines continue processing malformed data, leading to:

- Missing fields in normalized output
- Type mismatches causing ingestion failures
- Extra fields consuming storage without value
- Compliance gaps from incomplete data

## Detection Approaches

DataStream supports two validation strategies that can be combined based on operational requirements:

### Schema-on-Write

Strict enforcement at ingestion time keeps stored data clean. Events failing validation are flagged immediately, enabling real-time alerting and fallback processing.

```yaml
processors:
  - check_schema:
      schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
      target_field: "schema_check"
      check_mode: "both"
  - reroute:
      if: "schema_check.is_valid == false"
      destination: "quarantine"
```

### Schema-on-Read

Flexible adaptation allows analytics to continue despite minor deviations. Validation results are stored with the event for later analysis without blocking ingestion.

```yaml
processors:
  - check_schema:
      schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
      target_field: "schema_check"
      check_mode: "missing"
      validate_recommended: false
      validate_optional: false
```

## Validation Levels

The `check_schema` processor validates events against official schema definitions, checking for:

|Level|Behavior|Impact on Validity|
|---|---|---|
|Required fields|Always checked when `check_mode` includes `missing`|Missing required fields invalidate the event|
|Recommended fields|Checked only when `validate_recommended: true`|Configurable impact on validity|
|Optional fields|Checked only when `validate_optional: true`|Configurable impact on validity|
|Extra fields|Checked when `check_mode` includes `extra`|Never affects validity (informational only)|
|Type mismatches|Always checked for present fields|Follows field requirement level|

## Check Modes

The `check_mode` parameter controls what the processor validates:

|Mode|Detects Missing Fields|Detects Extra Fields|
|---|---|---|
|`missing`|Yes|No|
|`extra`|No|Yes|
|`both`|Yes|Yes|

## Validation Results

The processor writes a structured result to the specified `target_field`:

```json
{
  "is_valid": false,
  "missing_required_fields": ["EventSchema", "EventVendor"],
  "missing_recommended_fields": ["DvcAction", "EventSeverity"],
  "missing_optional_fields": ["SrcNatIpAddr"],
  "extra_fields": ["CustomField1", "VendorSpecific"],
  "type_mismatches": [
    {
      "field": "EventCount",
      "expected_type": "INT32",
      "actual_type": "STRING"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Conditional Processing Chains

The processor supports conditional processor chains that execute based on validation findings:

```yaml
processors:
  - check_schema:
      schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
      target_field: "schema_check"
      check_mode: "both"
      on_missing:
        - set:
            field: "drift_type"
            value: "missing_fields"
      on_extra:
        - set:
            field: "drift_type"
            value: "extra_fields"
      on_type_mismatch:
        - set:
            field: "drift_type"
            value: "type_mismatch"
```

## Automated Response

Detected schema drift can trigger automated responses through notification processors:

### Alerting

Send immediate notifications when drift is detected:

```yaml
processors:
  - check_schema:
      schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
      target_field: "schema_check"
      check_mode: "both"
      on_missing:
        - slack:
            title: "Schema Drift Detected"
            message: "Missing fields in {{ .EventVendor }} logs"
            color: "warning"
        - pagerduty:
            summary: "Schema drift: {{ .schema_check.missing_required_fields }}"
            severity: "warning"
```

### Fallback Normalization

Route events with drift to alternative processing:

```yaml
processors:
  - check_schema:
      schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
      target_field: "schema_check"
      check_mode: "missing"
  - reroute:
      if: "schema_check.is_valid == false"
      destination: "fallback_normalizer"
  - reroute:
      if: "schema_check.is_valid == true"
      destination: "sentinel"
```

### Field Enrichment

Automatically populate missing fields with defaults:

```yaml
processors:
  - check_schema:
      schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
      target_field: "schema_check"
      check_mode: "missing"
      on_missing:
        - set:
            if: "EventVendor == null"
            field: "EventVendor"
            value: "Unknown"
        - set:
            if: "EventProduct == null"
            field: "EventProduct"
            value: "Unknown"
```

## Supported Schemas

The processor supports validation against:

- **ASIM schemas**: Microsoft Sentinel's Advanced Security Information Model tables (ASimNetworkSessionLogs, ASimAuthenticationEventLogs, etc.)
- **OCSF schemas**: Open Cybersecurity Schema Framework categories

Schema names are specified in the `schema` field and can use template syntax for dynamic selection:

```yaml
processors:
  - check_schema:
      schema: "{{ .target_table }}"
      target_field: "schema_check"
      check_mode: "both"
```

## Integration with Multi-Tier Pipelines

Schema drift detection integrates with staged routing to validate data at each normalization tier. See <Topic id="pipelines-multi-tier">Multi-Tier Pipelines</Topic> for patterns combining schema validation with progressive normalization.

Commit message:

Enhance documentation for notification processors and schema drift detection integration

docs/configuration/pipelines/schema-drift-detection.mdx, after:

# Schema Drift Detection

Schema drift occurs when vendors change their log formats without warning—field names shift, structures reorganize, or data types change. These silent changes break normalization pipelines that continue running as if nothing happened, causing data quality issues downstream.

## The Challenge

Organizations ingesting logs from multiple vendors face a critical question: what happens when a vendor changes their field names or log structure? Without detection mechanisms, pipelines continue processing malformed data, leading to:

- Missing fields in normalized output
- Type mismatches causing ingestion failures
- Extra fields consuming storage without value
- Compliance gaps from incomplete data

## Detection Approaches

DataStream supports two validation strategies that can be combined based on operational requirements:

### Schema-on-Write

Strict enforcement at ingestion time keeps stored data clean. Events failing validation are flagged immediately, enabling real-time alerting and fallback processing.

```yaml
processors:
  - check_schema:
      schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
      target_field: "schema_check"
      check_mode: "both"
  - reroute:
      if: "schema_check.is_valid == false"
      destination: "quarantine"
```

### Schema-on-Read

Flexible adaptation allows analytics to continue despite minor deviations. Validation results are stored with the event for later analysis without blocking ingestion.

```yaml
processors:
  - check_schema:
      schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
      target_field: "schema_check"
      check_mode: "missing"
      validate_recommended: false
      validate_optional: false
```

## Validation Levels

The <Topic id="processors-check-schema">check_schema</Topic> processor validates events against official schema definitions, checking for:

|Level|Behavior|Impact on Validity|
|---|---|---|
|Required fields|Always checked when `check_mode` includes `missing`|Missing required fields invalidate the event|
|Recommended fields|Checked only when `validate_recommended: true`|Configurable impact on validity|
|Optional fields|Checked only when `validate_optional: true`|Configurable impact on validity|
|Extra fields|Checked when `check_mode` includes `extra`|Never affects validity (informational only)|
|Type mismatches|Always checked for present fields|Follows field requirement level|

## Check Modes

The `check_mode` parameter controls what the processor validates:

|Mode|Detects Missing Fields|Detects Extra Fields|
|---|---|---|
|`missing`|Yes|No|
|`extra`|No|Yes|
|`both`|Yes|Yes|

## Validation Results

The processor writes a structured result to the specified `target_field`:

```json
{
  "is_valid": false,
  "missing_required_fields": ["EventSchema", "EventVendor"],
  "missing_recommended_fields": ["DvcAction", "EventSeverity"],
  "missing_optional_fields": ["SrcNatIpAddr"],
  "extra_fields": ["CustomField1", "VendorSpecific"],
  "type_mismatches": [
    {
      "field": "EventCount",
      "expected_type": "INT32",
      "actual_type": "STRING"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Conditional Processing Chains

The processor supports conditional processor chains that execute based on validation findings:

```yaml
processors:
  - check_schema:
      schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
      target_field: "schema_check"
      check_mode: "both"
      on_missing:
        - set:
            field: "drift_type"
            value: "missing_fields"
      on_extra:
        - set:
            field: "drift_type"
            value: "extra_fields"
      on_type_mismatch:
        - set:
            field: "drift_type"
            value: "type_mismatch"
```

## Automated Response

Detected schema drift can trigger automated responses through notification processors:

### Alerting

Send immediate notifications when drift is detected using notification processors like <Topic id="processors-slack">slack</Topic> or <Topic id="processors-pagerduty">pagerduty</Topic>:

```yaml
processors:
  - check_schema:
      schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
      target_field: "schema_check"
      check_mode: "both"
      on_missing:
        - slack:
            title: "Schema Drift Detected"
            message: "Missing fields in {{ .EventVendor }} logs"
            color: "warning"
        - pagerduty:
            summary: "Schema drift: {{ .schema_check.missing_required_fields }}"
            severity: "warning"
```

### Fallback Normalization

Route events with drift to alternative processing:

```yaml
processors:
  - check_schema:
      schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
      target_field: "schema_check"
      check_mode: "missing"
  - reroute:
      if: "schema_check.is_valid == false"
      destination: "fallback_normalizer"
  - reroute:
      if: "schema_check.is_valid == true"
      destination: "sentinel"
```

### Field Enrichment

Automatically populate missing fields with defaults:

```yaml
processors:
  - check_schema:
      schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
      target_field: "schema_check"
      check_mode: "missing"
      on_missing:
        - set:
            if: "EventVendor == null"
            field: "EventVendor"
            value: "Unknown"
        - set:
            if: "EventProduct == null"
            field: "EventProduct"
            value: "Unknown"
```

## Supported Schemas

The processor supports validation against:

- **ASIM schemas**: Microsoft Sentinel's Advanced Security Information Model tables (ASimNetworkSessionLogs, ASimAuthenticationEventLogs, etc.)
- **OCSF schemas**: Open Cybersecurity Schema Framework categories

Schema names are specified in the `schema` field and can use template syntax for dynamic selection:

```yaml
processors:
  - check_schema:
      schema: "{{ .target_table }}"
      target_field: "schema_check"
      check_mode: "both"
```

## Integration with Multi-Tier Pipelines

Schema drift detection integrates with staged routing to validate data at each normalization tier. See <Topic id="pipelines-multi-tier">Multi-Tier Pipelines</Topic> for patterns combining schema validation with progressive normalization.
