docs/gui/fleet-management/targets/creating-targets.mdx, before:

# Creating Targets

To create a new target,

- In the **Home** view, click **Fleet Management**&nbsp;>&nbsp;**Targets**

-or-

- From the hamburger menu on the top left, select **Fleet Management**&nbsp;>&nbsp;**Targets**

This will take you to the **Targets** view.

Select a target type by clicking on its card. This will take you to the configuration view of that target type.

:::note
Since only specific targets can be created, we will discuss a _Console_ target below.
:::

Click the **Add new target** to go to the first tab of the target creation process.

### General Settings

- **Name** (Required) - Unique identifier for the target
- **Description** (Optional) - A note describing the purpose of the target
- **Target Status** (Optional) - Enable/disable target. By default, enabled
- **Post-processing pipeline** (Optional) - Select a pipeline to normalize the output from the dropdown. See <Topic id="normalization">Normalization</Topic> for details.

Click **Cancel** to exit without creating a target, or **Next step** to go to the next tab.

## Console Properties

Since we are creating a _Console_ target, this tab will contain the properties specific to that target type.

The elements in this view:

- **Format** (Optional) - Select and output format for the forwarded data (Elastic, Splunk, ASIM, etc.)

Click **Add target** to complete the target creation process.

Commit message:

Changed the target creation type to sentinel

docs/gui/fleet-management/targets/creating-targets.mdx, after:

# Creating Targets

To create a new target,

- In the **Home** view, click **Fleet Management**&nbsp;>&nbsp;**Targets**

-or-

- From the hamburger menu on the top left, select **Fleet Management**&nbsp;>&nbsp;**Targets**

This will take you to the **Targets** view.

Select a target type by clicking on its card. This will take you to the configuration view of that target type.

:::note
Since only specific targets can be created, we will discuss a _Microsoft Sentinel_ target below.
:::

Click the **Add new target** to go to the first tab of the target creation process.

### General Settings

- **Name** (Required) - Unique identifier for the target
- **Description** (Optional) - A note describing the purpose of the target
- **Target Status** - Enable/disable target. By default, enabled
- **Post-processing pipeline** (Optional) - Select a pipeline to normalize the output from the dropdown. See <Topic id="normalization">Normalization</Topic> for details.

Click **Cancel** to exit without creating a target, or **Next step** to go to the next tab.

## Azure Properties

Since we are creating a _Microsoft Sentinel_ target, this tab will contain the properties specific to that target type.

The elements in this view:

### Authentication

- **Managed Identity for Azure** (Conditional) - Enable/disable toggle. If disabled, the user has to specify the following:

- **Tenant ID** - The unique identifier for your **Azure Active Directory** tenant that contains the Microsoft Sentinel workspace.
- **Client ID** -  The application (client) identifier for the **Azure AD** app registration used to authenticate with **Microsoft Sentinel** APIs.
- **Client secret** - The secret key or password for the registered application that provides secure authentication to access Microsoft Sentinel resources.

Click **Back** to go back to the previous step, or **Next step** to go to the final tab.

## Stream Properties

- **Endpoint** - The Data Collection Rule endpoint URL where log data is sent for processing and routing within **Microsoft Sentinel**
- **Streams** (Optional) - Dropdown for selecting whether data collection rule streams are automatically detected from incoming data (_Auto_) or manually specified in the configuration (_Manual_)
- **Buffer Size** (Optional) - Buffer size in bytes. By default, 1 MB
- **Keep phantom fields** - Toggle for preserving fields that exist in the data but are not explicitly defined in the target schema or mapping configuration. By default, disabled
- **Drop unknown stream events** - Toggle. By default, disabled
- **Cache timeout** (Optional) - Stream cache timeout in seconds. By default, 300
- **Format** (Optional) - Dropdown for field normalization format for the forwarded data. By default, _ASIM_.

Click **Add target** to complete the target creation process.

You are taken back to the list of **Sentinel** targets, notified that the target is created, and you can see the target added to the table.
