docs/configuration/pipelines/processors/commit.mdx, before:

---
description: Finalizes staged routes from reroute processor
sidebar_custom_props:
  customIcon: ⚡
  customCategory: Flow Control
---

# Commit

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--primary">Flow Control</span>

## Synopsis

Finalizes staged routes created by the reroute processor with `staging: true`, moving events from the staging area to their designated destinations.

## Schema

```yaml
- commit:
    destination: <string>
    description: <text>
    if: <script>
    ignore_failure: <boolean>
    on_failure: <processor[]>
    on_success: <processor[]>
    tag: <string>
```

## Configuration

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`destination`|N|-|Specific destination to commit. If omitted, commits all staged routes.|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note|
|`if`|N|-|Condition to run|
|`ignore_failure`|N|`false`|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_failure`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_success`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-success">Handling Success</Topic>|
|`tag`|N|-|Identifier|

## Details

The commit processor works with the reroute processor to enable multi-tier pipeline architectures. When reroute uses `staging: true`, events are held in a staging area instead of being delivered immediately. The commit processor finalizes those staged routes.

**Staged Route Behavior**:
- Staged routes are stored in a map keyed by destination name
- Multiple staged routes to the same destination overwrite previous versions
- Only the final staged version for each destination is committed
- Without commit, staged routes are discarded at pipeline end

**Commit Modes**:
- **Commit all**: When `destination` is omitted, all staged routes are committed
- **Commit specific**: When `destination` is specified, only that destination is committed

**Error Handling**:
- Returns error if specified `destination` is not found in staged routes
- Use `ignore_failure: true` to continue processing when destination not found
- Empty staging area with no destination specified succeeds silently

This pattern enables progressive normalization where data passes through multiple transformation stages, with only the final, most-normalized version delivered to each destination. See <Topic id="pipelines-multi-tier">Multi-Tier Pipelines</Topic> for detailed patterns.

## Examples

### Commit All Staged Routes

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Committing all staged routes after multi-tier processing...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    processors:
      # Stage to archive
      - reroute:
          destination: "archive"
          table: "Syslog"
          staging: true

      # Normalize and stage to SIEM
      - normalize:
          target_format: csl
      - reroute:
          destination: "sentinel"
          table: "CommonSecurityLog"
          staging: true

      # Commit all destinations
      - commit:
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Both archive and sentinel receive their respective formats...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Commit Specific Destination

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Committing only a specific destination...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    processors:
      - reroute:
          destination: "sentinel"
          table: "Syslog"
          staging: true

      - reroute:
          destination: "lake"
          staging: true

      # Commit only sentinel
      - commit:
          destination: "sentinel"

      # Continue processing for lake
      - enrich:
          field: "additional_data"

      # Commit remaining
      - commit:
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Sentinel receives data immediately, lake receives enriched data later...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Staged Route Override

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Progressive normalization with automatic override...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    processors:
      # Stage Syslog format
      - reroute:
          destination: "sentinel"
          table: "Syslog"
          staging: true

      # Normalize to CSL and stage (overwrites)
      - normalize:
          target_format: csl
      - reroute:
          destination: "sentinel"
          table: "CommonSecurityLog"
          staging: true

      # Normalize to ASIM and stage (overwrites again)
      - normalize:
          target_format: asim
      - reroute:
          destination: "sentinel"
          table: "ASimNetworkSession"
          staging: true

      # Only ASIM version is committed
      - commit:
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Only the final ASIM version reaches sentinel...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Conditional Commit

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Committing based on validation results...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    processors:
      - normalize:
          target_format: asim
      - check_schema:
          schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
          target_field: "schema_check"
      - reroute:
          destination: "sentinel"
          staging: true

      # Only commit if schema is valid
      - commit:
          destination: "sentinel"
          if: "schema_check.is_valid == true"

      # Route invalid events elsewhere
      - reroute:
          if: "schema_check.is_valid == false"
          destination: "quarantine"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Valid events go to sentinel, invalid to quarantine...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Error Handling

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Handling missing destination gracefully...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    processors:
      - commit:
          destination: "nonexistent"
          ignore_failure: true
          on_failure:
            - set:
                field: "commit_error"
                value: "destination not found"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Processing continues with error captured...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "commit_error": "destination not found"
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

Commit message:

Clarify commit processor behavior: specify that staged routes are automatically committed at pipeline end and enhance early commit explanation.

docs/configuration/pipelines/processors/commit.mdx, after:

---
description: Finalizes staged routes from reroute processor
sidebar_custom_props:
  customIcon: ⚡
  customCategory: Flow Control
---

# Commit

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--primary">Flow Control</span>

## Synopsis

Finalizes staged routes created by the reroute processor with `staging: true`, moving events from the staging area to their designated destinations.

## Schema

```yaml
- commit:
    destination: <string>
    description: <text>
    if: <script>
    ignore_failure: <boolean>
    on_failure: <processor[]>
    on_success: <processor[]>
    tag: <string>
```

## Configuration

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`destination`|N|-|Specific destination to commit. If omitted, commits all staged routes.|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note|
|`if`|N|-|Condition to run|
|`ignore_failure`|N|`false`|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_failure`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_success`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-success">Handling Success</Topic>|
|`tag`|N|-|Identifier|

## Details

The commit processor works with the reroute processor to enable multi-tier pipeline architectures. When reroute uses `staging: true`, events are held in a staging area instead of being delivered immediately. The commit processor finalizes those staged routes.

**Staged Route Behavior**:
- Staged routes are stored in a map keyed by destination name
- Multiple staged routes to the same destination overwrite previous versions
- Only the final staged version for each destination is committed
- At pipeline end, all staged routes are automatically committed to their destinations

**Commit Modes**:
- **Commit all**: When `destination` is omitted, all staged routes are committed
- **Commit specific**: When `destination` is specified, only that destination is committed

**Error Handling**:
- Returns error if specified `destination` is not found in staged routes
- Use `ignore_failure: true` to continue processing when destination not found
- Empty staging area with no destination specified succeeds silently

This pattern enables progressive normalization where data passes through multiple transformation stages, with only the final, most-normalized version delivered to each destination. See <Topic id="pipelines-multi-tier">Multi-Tier Pipelines</Topic> for detailed patterns.

## Examples

### Commit All Staged Routes

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Committing all staged routes after multi-tier processing...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    processors:
      # Stage to archive
      - reroute:
          destination: "archive"
          table: "Syslog"
          staging: true

      # Normalize and stage to SIEM
      - normalize:
          target_format: csl
      - reroute:
          destination: "sentinel"
          table: "CommonSecurityLog"
          staging: true

      # Commit all destinations
      - commit:
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Both archive and sentinel receive their respective formats...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Commit Specific Destination

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Committing only a specific destination...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    processors:
      - reroute:
          destination: "sentinel"
          table: "Syslog"
          staging: true

      - reroute:
          destination: "lake"
          staging: true

      # Commit only sentinel
      - commit:
          destination: "sentinel"

      # Continue processing for lake
      - enrich:
          field: "additional_data"

      # Commit remaining
      - commit:
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Sentinel receives data immediately, lake receives enriched data later...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Staged Route Override

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Progressive normalization with automatic override...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    processors:
      # Stage Syslog format
      - reroute:
          destination: "sentinel"
          table: "Syslog"
          staging: true

      # Normalize to CSL and stage (overwrites)
      - normalize:
          target_format: csl
      - reroute:
          destination: "sentinel"
          table: "CommonSecurityLog"
          staging: true

      # Normalize to ASIM and stage (overwrites again)
      - normalize:
          target_format: asim
      - reroute:
          destination: "sentinel"
          table: "ASimNetworkSession"
          staging: true

      # Only ASIM version is committed
      - commit:
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Only the final ASIM version reaches sentinel...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Conditional Commit

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Committing based on validation results...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    processors:
      - normalize:
          target_format: asim
      - check_schema:
          schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
          target_field: "schema_check"
      - reroute:
          destination: "sentinel"
          staging: true

      # Only commit if schema is valid
      - commit:
          destination: "sentinel"
          if: "schema_check.is_valid == true"

      # Route invalid events elsewhere
      - reroute:
          if: "schema_check.is_valid == false"
          destination: "quarantine"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Valid events go to sentinel, invalid to quarantine...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Error Handling

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Handling missing destination gracefully...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    processors:
      - commit:
          destination: "nonexistent"
          ignore_failure: true
          on_failure:
            - set:
                field: "commit_error"
                value: "destination not found"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Processing continues with error captured...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "commit_error": "destination not found"
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>
