docs/configuration/pipelines/processors/final.mdx, before:

---
description: Terminates a pipeline
sidebar_custom_props: 
  customIcon: 🏁
  customCategory: Flow Control
---

# Final

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--primary">Control Flow</span><span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Cribl Compatible</span>

## Synopsis

Terminates the processing of a pipeline gracefully without raising errors.

## Schema

```yaml
- final:
    description: <text>
    if: <script>
    ignore_failure: <boolean>
    on_failure: <processor[]>
    on_success: <processor[]>
    tag: <string>
```

## Configuration

The following fields are used to define the processor:

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note for documentation|
|`if`|N|-|Condition determining when to finalize processing|
|`ignore_failure`|N|`false`|If `true`, condition evaluation errors are ignored|
|`on_failure`|N|-|See <Topic id="handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_success`|N|-|See <Topic id="handling-success">Handling Success</Topic>|
|`tag`|N|-|Identifier for the finalization point|

## Details

This processor is particularly useful for creating breakpoints, implementing conditional termination, optimizing execution by early termination, and preventing further pipelines from running.

Typical uses:

* **Early Exit on Success**

  ```yaml
  - append:
      field: tags
      value: processed
  - final:
      if: "ctx.tags.contains('processed')"
   ```

* **Prevent Duplicate Processing**

  ```yaml
  - set:
      field: processed_by
      value: pipeline_a
  - final:
      description: "Prevent other pipelines from processing"
   ```

* **Conditional Pipeline Branch**
 
  ```yaml
  - final:
      if: "ctx.environment == 'production'"
      description: "Skip test processors in production"
  - set:
      field: test_field
      value: test_value
   ```

It is good practice to use detailed description to document the finalization points. Also, consider adding cleanup tasks using `on_success`, test conditional finalization thoroughly, and use tags for tracking finalization points in logs.

:::warning
Once `final` is used, no further processors in any pipeline will execute. Use with caution in multi-pipeline setups, and consider using `if` to prevent unintended early termination.
:::

## Examples

### Basic

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Stopping processing after the field update...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - set:
        field: status
        value: completed
    - final:
        description: "Stop after status update"
    - set:  # This processor won't run
        field: other_field
        value: skipped
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    prevents further processing:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "status": "completed"
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Conditionals

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Finalizing based on packet count...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "source": {
        "packets": 10
      }
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - final:
        if: "ctx.source.packets == 10"
        description: "Stop processing for 10-packet sources"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    stops the process when the condition is met:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```text
    Pipeline processing finalized
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Success

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Executing cleanup on finalization...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - final:
        description: "Clean finalization"
        on_success:
          - set:
              field: processing_status
              value: completed
          - remove:
              field: temporary_data
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    terminates the pipeline gracefully:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "processing_status": "completed"
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

Commit message:

Update documentation for continue and final processors to clarify event handling and termination behavior; add references to processors in topics.json.

docs/configuration/pipelines/processors/final.mdx, after:

---
description: Terminates a pipeline
sidebar_custom_props: 
  customIcon: 🏁
  customCategory: Flow Control
---

# Final

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--primary">Control Flow</span><span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Cribl Compatible</span>

## Synopsis

Drops the current event from processing and terminates the pipeline gracefully.

## Schema

```yaml
- final:
    description: <text>
    if: <script>
    ignore_failure: <boolean>
    on_failure: <processor[]>
    on_success: <processor[]>
    tag: <string>
```

## Configuration

The following fields are used to define the processor:

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note for documentation|
|`if`|N|-|Condition determining when to finalize processing|
|`ignore_failure`|N|`false`|If `true`, condition evaluation errors are ignored|
|`on_failure`|N|-|See <Topic id="handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_success`|N|-|See <Topic id="handling-success">Handling Success</Topic>|
|`tag`|N|-|Identifier for the finalization point|

## Details

Drops the current event from processing by returning an error that signals the pipeline to discard the event. When this processor executes, the event is not sent to any configured targets and no further processors run.

This processor provides graceful pipeline termination, useful for creating breakpoints, implementing conditional termination, optimizing execution by early termination, and preventing further pipelines from running.

Typical uses:

* **Early Exit on Success**

  ```yaml
  - append:
      field: tags
      value: processed
  - final:
      if: "ctx.tags.contains('processed')"
   ```

* **Prevent Duplicate Processing**

  ```yaml
  - set:
      field: processed_by
      value: pipeline_a
  - final:
      description: "Prevent other pipelines from processing"
   ```

* **Conditional Pipeline Branch**
 
  ```yaml
  - final:
      if: "ctx.environment == 'production'"
      description: "Skip test processors in production"
  - set:
      field: test_field
      value: test_value
   ```

The event is dropped after any `on_success` processors execute, allowing for cleanup operations, logging, or metrics collection before the event is discarded.

:::note Final vs Return vs Continue vs Drop
All these processors drop events identically: `final`, <Topic id="return">`return`</Topic>, <Topic id="continue">`continue`</Topic>, and <Topic id="drop">`drop`</Topic>. Use `final` for graceful pipeline termination with clear semantic intent.
:::

It is good practice to use detailed description to document the finalization points. Also, consider adding cleanup tasks using `on_success`, test conditional finalization thoroughly, and use tags for tracking finalization points in logs.

:::warning
Once `final` is used, no further processors in any pipeline will execute, and the event will be dropped (not sent to targets). Use with caution in multi-pipeline setups, and consider using `if` to prevent unintended early termination.
:::

## Examples

### Basic

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Stopping processing after the field update...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - set:
        field: status
        value: completed
    - final:
        description: "Stop after status update"
    - set:  # This processor won't run
        field: other_field
        value: skipped
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    prevents further processing:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "status": "completed"
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Conditionals

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Finalizing based on packet count...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "source": {
        "packets": 10
      }
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - final:
        if: "ctx.source.packets == 10"
        description: "Stop processing for 10-packet sources"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    stops the process when the condition is met:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```text
    Pipeline processing finalized
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Success

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Executing cleanup on finalization...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    - final:
        description: "Clean finalization"
        on_success:
          - set:
              field: processing_status
              value: completed
          - remove:
              field: temporary_data
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    terminates the pipeline gracefully:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "processing_status": "completed"
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>
