docs/configuration/pipelines/processors/lowercase.mdx, before:

---
description: Converts strings to lowercase
sidebar_custom_props: 
  customIcon: ⬇️
  customCategory: Text Processing
---

# Lowercase

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--primary">Mutate</span><span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Elastic Compatible</span>

## Synopsis

Converts string values to lowercase.

## Schema

```yaml {2}
- lowercase:
    field: <ident>
    description: <text>
    if: <script>
    ignore_failure: <boolean>
    ignore_missing: <boolean>
    on_failure: <processor[]>
    on_success: <processor[]>
    tag: <string>
    target_field: <ident>
```

## Configuration

The following fields are used to define the processor:

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`field`|Y|-|Source field containing strings to convert|
|`description`|N|-|Documentation note|
|`if`|N|-|Conditional expression|
|`ignore_failure`|N|`false`|Skip processing errors|
|`ignore_missing`|N|`false`|Skip if input field missing|
|`on_failure`|N|-|Error handling processors|
|`on_success`|N|-|Success handling processors|
|`tag`|N|-|Identifier for logging|
|`target_field`|N|`field`|Output field for converted strings|

## Details

The processor can handle both single strings and arrays of strings, applying the transformation to all elements.

The processor is useful for standardizing text fields and tags or categories, prepare fields such as emails addresses for case-insensitive comparisons

:::note
The processor maintains the original field structure: single strings remain single strings, and arrays remain arrays.
:::

:::warning
Non-string values in the input field will cause processing errors unless `ignore_failure` is set to `true`.
:::

## Examples

### Basic

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Converting a single string...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "username": "JohnDoe"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - lowercase:
        field: username
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    transforms the element:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "username": "johndoe"
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Arrays

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Converting an array of strings...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "tags": ["User", "Admin", "MANAGER"]
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - lowercase:
        field: tags
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    transforms all elements:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "tags": ["user", "admin", "manager"]
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Keep Original

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Storing the result in a new field...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "original": "HELLO WORLD"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - lowercase:
        field: original
        target_field: lowercase_text
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    preserves the original:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "original": "HELLO WORLD",
      "lowercase_text": "hello world"
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Conditionals

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Using selection criteria...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "level": "DEBUG",
      "should_convert": true
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - lowercase:
        field: level
        if: "ctx.should_convert == true"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    converts only values that meet the condition:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "level": "debug",
      "should_convert": true
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Error Handling

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Handling non-string values gracefully...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "id": 12345,
      "name": "USER"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - lowercase:
        field: id
        ignore_failure: true
        on_failure:
          - set:
              field: error
              value: "Non-string field encountered"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    continues the execution:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "id": 12345,
      "name": "USER",
      "error": "Non-string field encountered"
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

Commit message:

Update processor documentation to clarify schema fields and default values for various processors, including acl-decode, append, azure-openai, binary-decode, camel-case, color-decode, comment, compact, data-size, dot-case, drop, go-to, humanize, kebab-case, lowercase, move, set, snowflake, sort, split, text-wrap, and virustotal.

docs/configuration/pipelines/processors/lowercase.mdx, after:

---
description: Converts strings to lowercase
sidebar_custom_props: 
  customIcon: ⬇️
  customCategory: Text Processing
---

# Lowercase

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--primary">Mutate</span><span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Elastic Compatible</span>

## Synopsis

Converts string values to lowercase.

## Schema

```yaml {2}
- lowercase:
    field: <ident>
    target_field: <ident>
    fields: <string[]>
    exclude: <string[]>
    description: <text>
    if: <script>
    ignore_failure: <boolean>
    ignore_missing: <boolean>
    on_failure: <processor[]>
    on_success: <processor[]>
    tag: <string>
```

## Configuration

The following fields are used to define the processor:

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`field`|Y|-|Source field containing strings to convert|
|`target_field`|N|Same as `field`|Target field to store lowercase result|
|`fields`|N|-|Array of fields to convert to lowercase|
|`exclude`|N|-|Array of fields to exclude from conversion|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note|
|`if`|N|-|Condition to run|
|`ignore_failure`|N|`false`|Continue processing if conversion fails|
|`ignore_missing`|N|`false`|Skip processing if referenced field doesn't exist|
|`on_failure`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_success`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-success">Handling Success</Topic>|
|`tag`|N|-|Identifier|

## Details

The processor can handle both single strings and arrays of strings, applying the transformation to all elements.

The processor is useful for standardizing text fields and tags or categories, prepare fields such as emails addresses for case-insensitive comparisons

:::note
The processor maintains the original field structure: single strings remain single strings, and arrays remain arrays.
:::

:::warning
Non-string values in the input field will cause processing errors unless `ignore_failure` is set to `true`.
:::

## Examples

### Basic

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Converting a single string...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "username": "JohnDoe"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - lowercase:
        field: username
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    transforms the element:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "username": "johndoe"
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Arrays

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Converting an array of strings...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "tags": ["User", "Admin", "MANAGER"]
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - lowercase:
        field: tags
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    transforms all elements:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "tags": ["user", "admin", "manager"]
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Keep Original

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Storing the result in a new field...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "original": "HELLO WORLD"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - lowercase:
        field: original
        target_field: lowercase_text
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    preserves the original:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "original": "HELLO WORLD",
      "lowercase_text": "hello world"
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Conditionals

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Using selection criteria...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "level": "DEBUG",
      "should_convert": true
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - lowercase:
        field: level
        if: "ctx.should_convert == true"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    converts only values that meet the condition:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "level": "debug",
      "should_convert": true
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Error Handling

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Handling non-string values gracefully...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "id": 12345,
      "name": "USER"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - lowercase:
        field: id
        ignore_failure: true
        on_failure:
          - set:
              field: error
              value: "Non-string field encountered"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    continues the execution:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "id": 12345,
      "name": "USER",
      "error": "Non-string field encountered"
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>
