docs/configuration/pipelines/processors/msteams.mdx, before:

---
description: Sends alert notifications to Microsoft Teams via webhook
sidebar_custom_props:
  customIcon: 🔔
  customCategory: Notification
---

# MS Teams

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--primary">Notification</span>

## Synopsis

Sends alert notifications to Microsoft Teams channels using incoming webhooks, supporting Adaptive Card formatting with titles, text, facts, actions, and theme colors.

## Schema

```yaml {2-4}
- msteams:
    webhook_url: <string>
    title: <string>
    text: <string>
    subtitle: <string>
    image: <string>
    theme_color: <string>
    width: <string>
    facts: <fact[]>
    actions: <action[]>
    description: <text>
    if: <script>
    ignore_failure: <boolean>
    on_failure: <processor[]>
    on_success: <processor[]>
    tag: <string>
```

## Configuration

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`webhook_url`|Y|-|Microsoft Teams incoming webhook URL|
|`title`|Y|-|Card title displayed prominently|
|`text`|Y|-|Main message body text|
|`subtitle`|N|-|Subtitle displayed below the title|
|`image`|N|-|URL to image displayed in the card|
|`theme_color`|N|-|Card accent color: `good`, `warning`, `danger`, `info`, or hex code|
|`width`|N|-|Card width: `Full` for full-width cards|
|`facts`|N|-|Array of fact objects with `title` and `value` fields|
|`actions`|N|-|Array of action objects with `title` and `url` fields|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note|
|`if`|N|-|Condition to run|
|`ignore_failure`|N|`false`|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_failure`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_success`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-success">Handling Success</Topic>|
|`tag`|N|-|Identifier|

## Details

The msteams processor sends notifications to Microsoft Teams channels using incoming webhooks with Adaptive Card formatting.

**Webhook Setup**: Create an incoming webhook in Teams:
1. Open the target channel
2. Click "..." → "Connectors" or "Workflows"
3. Add "Incoming Webhook" connector
4. Copy the webhook URL

**Theme Colors**: Visual severity indicators for the card's accent stripe:
- `good` / green hex: Success, resolved incidents
- `warning` / orange hex: Warnings, degraded states
- `danger` / red hex: Errors, critical alerts
- `info` / blue hex: Informational messages
- Custom hex codes (e.g., `#FF5733`) for brand colors

**Facts**: Key-value pairs displayed in a structured format:
```yaml
facts:
  - title: "Server"
    value: "{{ .hostname }}"
  - title: "CPU"
    value: "{{ .cpu_usage }}%"
```

**Actions**: Clickable buttons linking to external resources:
```yaml
actions:
  - title: "View Dashboard"
    url: "https://dashboard.example.com/{{ .server }}"
```

**Template Support**: All string fields support Go template syntax with event field interpolation using `{{ .field_name }}`.

## Examples

### Basic Alert

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Sending a simple alert notification...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_name": "High CPU Usage",
      "server": "prod-server-01",
      "cpu_usage": "95%"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - msteams:
        webhook_url: "${MSTEAMS_WEBHOOK_URL}"
        title: "Alert: {{ .alert_name }}"
        text: "CPU usage is at {{ .cpu_usage }} on server {{ .server }}"
        theme_color: "danger"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Red-themed alert card sent to Teams channel...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Card with Facts

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Including structured data as facts...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_name": "Schema Drift Detected",
      "schema": "ASimNetworkSessionLogs",
      "missing": "3 required fields"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - msteams:
        webhook_url: "${MSTEAMS_WEBHOOK_URL}"
        title: "{{ .alert_name }}"
        text: "Schema validation failed"
        theme_color: "warning"
        facts:
          - title: "Schema"
            value: "{{ .schema }}"
          - title: "Missing Fields"
            value: "{{ .missing }}"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Facts displayed in structured format below text...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Card with Actions

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Adding clickable action buttons...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_name": "Database Connection Failed",
      "server": "db-server-01"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - msteams:
        webhook_url: "${MSTEAMS_WEBHOOK_URL}"
        title: "{{ .alert_name }}"
        text: "Connection to {{ .server }} failed"
        theme_color: "danger"
        actions:
          - title: "View Dashboard"
            url: "https://dashboard.example.com/servers/{{ .server }}"
          - title: "View Logs"
            url: "https://logs.example.com/{{ .server }}"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Action buttons link to dashboards and logs...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Complete Card

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Full-featured card with all elements...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_type": "Critical",
      "server": "prod-server-01",
      "cpu_usage": "95%",
      "memory_used": "87%",
      "disk_space": "92%"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - msteams:
        webhook_url: "${MSTEAMS_WEBHOOK_URL}"
        title: "{{ .alert_type }} Alert"
        subtitle: "Server: {{ .server }}"
        text: "Server resources are critically high"
        image: "https://example.com/alert-icon.png"
        theme_color: "danger"
        width: "Full"
        facts:
          - title: "CPU Usage"
            value: "{{ .cpu_usage }}"
          - title: "Memory Used"
            value: "{{ .memory_used }}"
          - title: "Disk Space"
            value: "{{ .disk_space }}"
        actions:
          - title: "View Dashboard"
            url: "https://dashboard.example.com/{{ .server }}"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Full-width card with image, facts, and actions...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Schema Drift Alert

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Alerting on schema validation failures...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    processors:
      - check_schema:
          schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
          target_field: "schema_check"
          on_missing:
            - msteams:
                webhook_url: "${MSTEAMS_WEBHOOK_URL}"
                title: "Schema Validation Failed"
                subtitle: "Data Quality Alert"
                text: "Missing required fields detected"
                theme_color: "danger"
                facts:
                  - title: "Schema"
                    value: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
                  - title: "Valid"
                    value: "{{ .schema_check.is_valid }}"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Alert triggered automatically when schema drift detected...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

Commit message:

Enhance documentation for notification processors and schema drift detection integration

docs/configuration/pipelines/processors/msteams.mdx, after:

---
description: Sends alert notifications to Microsoft Teams via webhook
sidebar_custom_props:
  customIcon: 🔔
  customCategory: Notification
---

# MS Teams

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--primary">Notification</span>

## Synopsis

Sends alert notifications to Microsoft Teams channels using incoming webhooks, supporting Adaptive Card formatting with titles, text, facts, actions, and theme colors.

## Schema

```yaml {2-4}
- msteams:
    webhook_url: <string>
    title: <string>
    text: <string>
    subtitle: <string>
    image: <string>
    theme_color: <string>
    width: <string>
    facts: <fact[]>
    actions: <action[]>
    description: <text>
    if: <script>
    ignore_failure: <boolean>
    on_failure: <processor[]>
    on_success: <processor[]>
    tag: <string>
```

## Configuration

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`webhook_url`|Y|-|Microsoft Teams incoming webhook URL|
|`title`|Y|-|Card title displayed prominently|
|`text`|Y|-|Main message body text|
|`subtitle`|N|-|Subtitle displayed below the title|
|`image`|N|-|URL to image displayed in the card|
|`theme_color`|N|-|Card accent color: `good`, `warning`, `danger`, `info`, or hex code|
|`width`|N|-|Card width: `Full` for full-width cards|
|`facts`|N|-|Array of fact objects with `title` and `value` fields|
|`actions`|N|-|Array of action objects with `title` and `url` fields|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note|
|`if`|N|-|Condition to run|
|`ignore_failure`|N|`false`|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_failure`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_success`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-success">Handling Success</Topic>|
|`tag`|N|-|Identifier|

## Details

The msteams processor sends notifications to Microsoft Teams channels using incoming webhooks with Adaptive Card formatting.

**Webhook Setup**: Create an incoming webhook in Teams:
1. Open the target channel
2. Click "..." → "Connectors" or "Workflows"
3. Add "Incoming Webhook" connector
4. Copy the webhook URL

**Theme Colors**: Visual severity indicators for the card's accent stripe:
- `good` / green hex: Success, resolved incidents
- `warning` / orange hex: Warnings, degraded states
- `danger` / red hex: Errors, critical alerts
- `info` / blue hex: Informational messages
- Custom hex codes (e.g., `#FF5733`) for brand colors

**Facts**: Key-value pairs displayed in a structured format:
```yaml
facts:
  - title: "Server"
    value: "{{ .hostname }}"
  - title: "CPU"
    value: "{{ .cpu_usage }}%"
```

**Actions**: Clickable buttons linking to external resources:
```yaml
actions:
  - title: "View Dashboard"
    url: "https://dashboard.example.com/{{ .server }}"
```

**Template Support**: All string fields support Go template syntax with event field interpolation using `{{ .field_name }}`.

For integration patterns with schema validation, see <Topic id="pipelines-schema-drift-detection">Schema Drift Detection</Topic>.

## Examples

### Basic Alert

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Sending a simple alert notification...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_name": "High CPU Usage",
      "server": "prod-server-01",
      "cpu_usage": "95%"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - msteams:
        webhook_url: "${MSTEAMS_WEBHOOK_URL}"
        title: "Alert: {{ .alert_name }}"
        text: "CPU usage is at {{ .cpu_usage }} on server {{ .server }}"
        theme_color: "danger"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Red-themed alert card sent to Teams channel...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Card with Facts

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Including structured data as facts...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_name": "Schema Drift Detected",
      "schema": "ASimNetworkSessionLogs",
      "missing": "3 required fields"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - msteams:
        webhook_url: "${MSTEAMS_WEBHOOK_URL}"
        title: "{{ .alert_name }}"
        text: "Schema validation failed"
        theme_color: "warning"
        facts:
          - title: "Schema"
            value: "{{ .schema }}"
          - title: "Missing Fields"
            value: "{{ .missing }}"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Facts displayed in structured format below text...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Card with Actions

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Adding clickable action buttons...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_name": "Database Connection Failed",
      "server": "db-server-01"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - msteams:
        webhook_url: "${MSTEAMS_WEBHOOK_URL}"
        title: "{{ .alert_name }}"
        text: "Connection to {{ .server }} failed"
        theme_color: "danger"
        actions:
          - title: "View Dashboard"
            url: "https://dashboard.example.com/servers/{{ .server }}"
          - title: "View Logs"
            url: "https://logs.example.com/{{ .server }}"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Action buttons link to dashboards and logs...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Complete Card

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Full-featured card with all elements...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_type": "Critical",
      "server": "prod-server-01",
      "cpu_usage": "95%",
      "memory_used": "87%",
      "disk_space": "92%"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - msteams:
        webhook_url: "${MSTEAMS_WEBHOOK_URL}"
        title: "{{ .alert_type }} Alert"
        subtitle: "Server: {{ .server }}"
        text: "Server resources are critically high"
        image: "https://example.com/alert-icon.png"
        theme_color: "danger"
        width: "Full"
        facts:
          - title: "CPU Usage"
            value: "{{ .cpu_usage }}"
          - title: "Memory Used"
            value: "{{ .memory_used }}"
          - title: "Disk Space"
            value: "{{ .disk_space }}"
        actions:
          - title: "View Dashboard"
            url: "https://dashboard.example.com/{{ .server }}"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Full-width card with image, facts, and actions...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Schema Drift Alert

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Alerting on schema validation failures...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    processors:
      - check_schema:
          schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
          target_field: "schema_check"
          on_missing:
            - msteams:
                webhook_url: "${MSTEAMS_WEBHOOK_URL}"
                title: "Schema Validation Failed"
                subtitle: "Data Quality Alert"
                text: "Missing required fields detected"
                theme_color: "danger"
                facts:
                  - title: "Schema"
                    value: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
                  - title: "Valid"
                    value: "{{ .schema_check.is_valid }}"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Alert triggered automatically when schema drift detected...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>
