docs/configuration/pipelines/processors/pagerduty.mdx, before:

---
description: Sends incident alerts to PagerDuty via Events API v2
sidebar_custom_props:
  customIcon: 🔔
  customCategory: Notification
---

# PagerDuty

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--primary">Notification</span>

## Synopsis

Sends incident alerts to PagerDuty using the Events API v2, supporting event actions (trigger, acknowledge, resolve), severity levels, deduplication keys, and custom details for incident management.

## Schema

```yaml {2-3}
- pagerduty:
    routing_key: <string>
    summary: <string>
    event_action: <string>
    dedup_key: <string>
    source: <string>
    severity: <string>
    component: <string>
    group: <string>
    class: <string>
    custom_details: <map>
    client: <string>
    client_url: <string>
    images: <image[]>
    links: <link[]>
    description: <text>
    if: <script>
    ignore_failure: <boolean>
    on_failure: <processor[]>
    on_success: <processor[]>
    tag: <string>
```

## Configuration

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`routing_key`|Y|-|PagerDuty integration key (routing key). Defaults to `${PAGERDUTY_ROUTING_KEY}` env variable.|
|`summary`|Y|-|Brief description of the incident|
|`event_action`|N|`trigger`|Action to perform: `trigger`, `acknowledge`, or `resolve`|
|`dedup_key`|N|-|Deduplication key to correlate trigger, acknowledge, and resolve events|
|`source`|N|-|Source of the event (e.g., hostname, service name)|
|`severity`|N|`info`|Severity level: `critical`, `error`, `warning`, or `info`|
|`component`|N|-|Component of the source machine responsible for the event|
|`group`|N|-|Logical grouping of components|
|`class`|N|-|Type or classification of the event|
|`custom_details`|N|-|Map of additional details to include with the incident|
|`client`|N|`VirtualMetric`|Name of the monitoring client|
|`client_url`|N|`https://www.virtualmetric.com`|URL of the monitoring client|
|`images`|N|-|Array of image objects with `src`, `href`, and `alt` fields|
|`links`|N|-|Array of link objects with `href` and `text` fields|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note|
|`if`|N|-|Condition to run|
|`ignore_failure`|N|`false`|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_failure`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_success`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-success">Handling Success</Topic>|
|`tag`|N|-|Identifier|

## Details

The pagerduty processor sends incident alerts to PagerDuty using the Events API v2.

**Event Actions**: Control incident lifecycle through event actions:
- `trigger`: Create a new incident or add to an existing open incident with the same dedup_key
- `acknowledge`: Acknowledge an open incident (prevents escalation)
- `resolve`: Close an open incident

**Deduplication Keys**: The `dedup_key` field correlates related events. Multiple triggers with the same dedup_key are grouped into one incident. Use templates to create dynamic keys based on event data (e.g., `cpu-{{ .server }}`).

**Severity Levels**: Visual and behavioral indicators in PagerDuty:
- `critical`: Highest severity, immediate attention required
- `error`: Error condition requiring attention
- `warning`: Potential issue, monitoring recommended
- `info`: Informational message

**Custom Details**: The `custom_details` map passes additional context to responders. Values support template syntax for dynamic content.

**Images and Links**: Enrich incidents with visual context and quick navigation:
- Images: Include `src` (required), `href`, and `alt` fields
- Links: Include `href` (required) and `text` fields

**Template Support**: All string fields support Go template syntax with event field interpolation using `{{ .field_name }}`.

## Examples

### Basic Alert

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Triggering a critical incident...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_name": "High CPU Usage",
      "server": "prod-server-01",
      "cpu_usage": "95%"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - pagerduty:
        routing_key: "${PAGERDUTY_ROUTING_KEY}"
        summary: "Alert: {{ .alert_name }} on {{ .server }}"
        source: "{{ .server }}"
        severity: "critical"
        dedup_key: "cpu-{{ .server }}"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Critical incident created in PagerDuty...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Resolve Incident

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Resolving a previously triggered incident...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_name": "High CPU Usage",
      "server": "prod-server-01"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - pagerduty:
        routing_key: "${PAGERDUTY_ROUTING_KEY}"
        event_action: "resolve"
        summary: "Resolved: {{ .alert_name }} on {{ .server }}"
        source: "{{ .server }}"
        severity: "info"
        dedup_key: "cpu-{{ .server }}"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Incident with matching dedup_key is resolved...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### With Custom Details

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Including additional context in the incident...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_name": "High CPU Usage",
      "server": "prod-server-01",
      "cpu_usage": "95%"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - pagerduty:
        routing_key: "${PAGERDUTY_ROUTING_KEY}"
        summary: "Alert: {{ .alert_name }} on {{ .server }}"
        source: "{{ .server }}"
        severity: "critical"
        component: "CPU"
        dedup_key: "cpu-{{ .server }}"
        custom_details:
          cpu_usage: "{{ .cpu_usage }}"
          server: "{{ .server }}"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Custom details appear in incident timeline...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### With Images and Links

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Adding visual context and navigation links...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_name": "Schema Drift Detected",
      "schema": "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - pagerduty:
        routing_key: "${PAGERDUTY_ROUTING_KEY}"
        summary: "{{ .alert_name }}: {{ .schema }}"
        source: "Data Pipeline"
        severity: "warning"
        component: "Schema Validation"
        dedup_key: "schema-{{ .schema }}"
        images:
          - src: "https://example.com/chart.png"
            href: "https://dashboard.example.com"
            alt: "Monitoring Chart"
        links:
          - href: "https://dashboard.example.com/schema"
            text: "View Schema Dashboard"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Incident includes embedded image and dashboard link...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Schema Drift Alert

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Alerting on schema validation failures...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    processors:
      - check_schema:
          schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
          target_field: "schema_check"
          on_missing:
            - pagerduty:
                routing_key: "${PAGERDUTY_ROUTING_KEY}"
                summary: "Schema Validation Failed: ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
                source: "Data Pipeline"
                severity: "critical"
                component: "Schema Validation"
                group: "Data Quality"
                class: "Schema Drift"
                dedup_key: "schema-ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
                custom_details:
                  is_valid: "{{ .schema_check.is_valid }}"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    PagerDuty incident triggered when schema validation fails...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

Commit message:

Enhance documentation for notification processors and schema drift detection integration

docs/configuration/pipelines/processors/pagerduty.mdx, after:

---
description: Sends incident alerts to PagerDuty via Events API v2
sidebar_custom_props:
  customIcon: 🔔
  customCategory: Notification
---

# PagerDuty

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--primary">Notification</span>

## Synopsis

Sends incident alerts to PagerDuty using the Events API v2, supporting event actions (trigger, acknowledge, resolve), severity levels, deduplication keys, and custom details for incident management.

## Schema

```yaml {2-3}
- pagerduty:
    routing_key: <string>
    summary: <string>
    event_action: <string>
    dedup_key: <string>
    source: <string>
    severity: <string>
    component: <string>
    group: <string>
    class: <string>
    custom_details: <map>
    client: <string>
    client_url: <string>
    images: <image[]>
    links: <link[]>
    description: <text>
    if: <script>
    ignore_failure: <boolean>
    on_failure: <processor[]>
    on_success: <processor[]>
    tag: <string>
```

## Configuration

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`routing_key`|Y|-|PagerDuty integration key (routing key). Defaults to `${PAGERDUTY_ROUTING_KEY}` env variable.|
|`summary`|Y|-|Brief description of the incident|
|`event_action`|N|`trigger`|Action to perform: `trigger`, `acknowledge`, or `resolve`|
|`dedup_key`|N|-|Deduplication key to correlate trigger, acknowledge, and resolve events|
|`source`|N|-|Source of the event (e.g., hostname, service name)|
|`severity`|N|`info`|Severity level: `critical`, `error`, `warning`, or `info`|
|`component`|N|-|Component of the source machine responsible for the event|
|`group`|N|-|Logical grouping of components|
|`class`|N|-|Type or classification of the event|
|`custom_details`|N|-|Map of additional details to include with the incident|
|`client`|N|`VirtualMetric`|Name of the monitoring client|
|`client_url`|N|`https://www.virtualmetric.com`|URL of the monitoring client|
|`images`|N|-|Array of image objects with `src`, `href`, and `alt` fields|
|`links`|N|-|Array of link objects with `href` and `text` fields|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note|
|`if`|N|-|Condition to run|
|`ignore_failure`|N|`false`|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_failure`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_success`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-success">Handling Success</Topic>|
|`tag`|N|-|Identifier|

## Details

The pagerduty processor sends incident alerts to PagerDuty using the Events API v2.

**Event Actions**: Control incident lifecycle through event actions:
- `trigger`: Create a new incident or add to an existing open incident with the same dedup_key
- `acknowledge`: Acknowledge an open incident (prevents escalation)
- `resolve`: Close an open incident

**Deduplication Keys**: The `dedup_key` field correlates related events. Multiple triggers with the same dedup_key are grouped into one incident. Use templates to create dynamic keys based on event data (e.g., `cpu-{{ .server }}`).

**Severity Levels**: Visual and behavioral indicators in PagerDuty:
- `critical`: Highest severity, immediate attention required
- `error`: Error condition requiring attention
- `warning`: Potential issue, monitoring recommended
- `info`: Informational message

**Custom Details**: The `custom_details` map passes additional context to responders. Values support template syntax for dynamic content.

**Images and Links**: Enrich incidents with visual context and quick navigation:
- Images: Include `src` (required), `href`, and `alt` fields
- Links: Include `href` (required) and `text` fields

**Template Support**: All string fields support Go template syntax with event field interpolation using `{{ .field_name }}`.

For integration patterns with schema validation, see <Topic id="pipelines-schema-drift-detection">Schema Drift Detection</Topic>.

## Examples

### Basic Alert

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Triggering a critical incident...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_name": "High CPU Usage",
      "server": "prod-server-01",
      "cpu_usage": "95%"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - pagerduty:
        routing_key: "${PAGERDUTY_ROUTING_KEY}"
        summary: "Alert: {{ .alert_name }} on {{ .server }}"
        source: "{{ .server }}"
        severity: "critical"
        dedup_key: "cpu-{{ .server }}"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Critical incident created in PagerDuty...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Resolve Incident

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Resolving a previously triggered incident...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_name": "High CPU Usage",
      "server": "prod-server-01"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - pagerduty:
        routing_key: "${PAGERDUTY_ROUTING_KEY}"
        event_action: "resolve"
        summary: "Resolved: {{ .alert_name }} on {{ .server }}"
        source: "{{ .server }}"
        severity: "info"
        dedup_key: "cpu-{{ .server }}"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Incident with matching dedup_key is resolved...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### With Custom Details

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Including additional context in the incident...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_name": "High CPU Usage",
      "server": "prod-server-01",
      "cpu_usage": "95%"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - pagerduty:
        routing_key: "${PAGERDUTY_ROUTING_KEY}"
        summary: "Alert: {{ .alert_name }} on {{ .server }}"
        source: "{{ .server }}"
        severity: "critical"
        component: "CPU"
        dedup_key: "cpu-{{ .server }}"
        custom_details:
          cpu_usage: "{{ .cpu_usage }}"
          server: "{{ .server }}"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Custom details appear in incident timeline...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### With Images and Links

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Adding visual context and navigation links...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_name": "Schema Drift Detected",
      "schema": "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - pagerduty:
        routing_key: "${PAGERDUTY_ROUTING_KEY}"
        summary: "{{ .alert_name }}: {{ .schema }}"
        source: "Data Pipeline"
        severity: "warning"
        component: "Schema Validation"
        dedup_key: "schema-{{ .schema }}"
        images:
          - src: "https://example.com/chart.png"
            href: "https://dashboard.example.com"
            alt: "Monitoring Chart"
        links:
          - href: "https://dashboard.example.com/schema"
            text: "View Schema Dashboard"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Incident includes embedded image and dashboard link...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Schema Drift Alert

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Alerting on schema validation failures...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    processors:
      - check_schema:
          schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
          target_field: "schema_check"
          on_missing:
            - pagerduty:
                routing_key: "${PAGERDUTY_ROUTING_KEY}"
                summary: "Schema Validation Failed: ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
                source: "Data Pipeline"
                severity: "critical"
                component: "Schema Validation"
                group: "Data Quality"
                class: "Schema Drift"
                dedup_key: "schema-ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
                custom_details:
                  is_valid: "{{ .schema_check.is_valid }}"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    PagerDuty incident triggered when schema validation fails...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>
