docs/configuration/pipelines/processors/servicenow.mdx, before:

---
description: Creates and updates incidents in ServiceNow
sidebar_custom_props:
  customIcon: 🔔
  customCategory: Notification
---

# ServiceNow

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--primary">Notification</span>

## Synopsis

Creates and updates incidents in ServiceNow using the Table API, supporting incident tracking via problem IDs, automatic state management, and configurable impact/urgency levels for IT service management integration.

## Schema

```yaml {2-5}
- servicenow:
    instance_url: <string>
    username: <string>
    password: <string>
    short_description: <string>
    detailed_description: <string>
    caller_id: <string>
    category: <string>
    subcategory: <string>
    company: <string>
    assignment_group: <string>
    assigned_to: <string>
    impact: <string>
    urgency: <string>
    state: <string>
    problem_id: <string>
    cmdb_ci: <string>
    close_notes: <string>
    close_code: <string>
    auto_close: <boolean>
    description: <text>
    if: <script>
    ignore_failure: <boolean>
    on_failure: <processor[]>
    on_success: <processor[]>
    tag: <string>
```

## Configuration

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`instance_url`|Y|-|ServiceNow instance URL or name (e.g., `myinstance` or `myinstance.service-now.com`)|
|`username`|Y|-|ServiceNow username. Defaults to `${SERVICENOW_USERNAME}` env variable.|
|`password`|Y|-|ServiceNow password. Defaults to `${SERVICENOW_PASSWORD}` env variable.|
|`short_description`|Y|-|Brief incident description (title)|
|`detailed_description`|N|-|Full incident description with details|
|`caller_id`|N|-|Sys_id or name of the user reporting the incident|
|`category`|N|-|Incident category|
|`subcategory`|N|-|Incident subcategory|
|`company`|N|-|Company associated with the incident|
|`assignment_group`|N|-|Group to assign the incident to|
|`assigned_to`|N|-|Individual to assign the incident to|
|`impact`|N|`low`|Business impact: `high`, `medium`, or `low`|
|`urgency`|N|`low`|How quickly resolution is needed: `high`, `medium`, or `low`|
|`state`|N|`new`|Incident state: `new`, `in_progress`, `on_hold`, `resolved`, or `closed`|
|`problem_id`|N|-|Unique identifier for tracking related incidents|
|`cmdb_ci`|N|-|Configuration Item from CMDB|
|`close_notes`|N|`Closed automatically`|Notes when closing incident|
|`close_code`|N|`Closed/Resolved by Caller`|Resolution code when closing|
|`auto_close`|N|`false`|Automatically set close fields when state is closed|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note|
|`if`|N|-|Condition to run|
|`ignore_failure`|N|`false`|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_failure`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_success`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-success">Handling Success</Topic>|
|`tag`|N|-|Identifier|

## Details

The servicenow processor creates and updates incidents in ServiceNow using the Table API.

**Instance URL**: Accepts either a full URL (`https://myinstance.service-now.com`) or just the instance name (`myinstance`). The processor automatically constructs the full URL when only the instance name is provided.

**Incident Tracking**: The `problem_id` field enables incident correlation. When set, the processor searches for existing open incidents with the same problem_id:
- If found: Updates the existing incident
- If not found: Creates a new incident

**State Management**: Control incident lifecycle through the `state` field:
- `new`: Newly created incident (default)
- `in_progress`: Work has started
- `on_hold`: Waiting for external action
- `resolved`: Issue fixed, awaiting verification
- `closed`: Incident completed

**Impact and Urgency**: These fields combine to determine incident priority:
- `high` or `critical`: Value 1 in ServiceNow
- `medium`: Value 2
- `low`: Value 3 (default)

**Auto Close**: When `auto_close: true` and state is `closed`, the processor automatically populates close_notes and close_code fields if not explicitly set.

**Template Support**: All string fields support Go template syntax with event field interpolation using `{{ .field_name }}`.

## Examples

### Create Incident

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Creating a new ServiceNow incident...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "event_name": "Schema Drift Detected",
      "missing_fields": "EventCount, EventSchema",
      "severity": "high"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - servicenow:
        instance_url: "myinstance"
        username: "${SERVICENOW_USERNAME}"
        password: "${SERVICENOW_PASSWORD}"
        short_description: "Schema Drift: {{ .event_name }}"
        detailed_description: "Missing fields detected: {{ .missing_fields }}"
        impact: "{{ .severity }}"
        urgency: "high"
        state: "new"
        problem_id: "schema-drift-001"
        category: "Software"
        cmdb_ci: "DataPipeline"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    High-priority incident created in ServiceNow...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Update Existing Incident

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Updating an incident with the same problem_id...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "event_name": "Schema Drift Resolved",
      "missing_fields": "None",
      "severity": "low"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - servicenow:
        instance_url: "myinstance"
        username: "${SERVICENOW_USERNAME}"
        password: "${SERVICENOW_PASSWORD}"
        short_description: "Schema Drift: {{ .event_name }}"
        detailed_description: "Issue resolved. Missing fields: {{ .missing_fields }}"
        impact: "{{ .severity }}"
        urgency: "low"
        state: "resolved"
        problem_id: "schema-drift-001"
        category: "Software"
        cmdb_ci: "DataPipeline"
        auto_close: true
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Existing incident updated to resolved state...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Template Processing

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Using templates for dynamic incident details...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_name": "High CPU Usage",
      "server": "prod-server-01",
      "cpu_usage": "95%"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - servicenow:
        instance_url: "myinstance"
        username: "${SERVICENOW_USERNAME}"
        password: "${SERVICENOW_PASSWORD}"
        short_description: "[{{ .alert_name }}] on {{ .server }}"
        detailed_description: "CPU usage is at {{ .cpu_usage }} on server {{ .server }}"
        impact: "high"
        urgency: "high"
        state: "new"
        problem_id: "cpu-{{ .server }}"
        cmdb_ci: "{{ .server }}"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Incident created with templated values from event data...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Schema Drift Alert

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Creating incidents when schema validation fails...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    processors:
      - check_schema:
          schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
          target_field: "schema_check"
          on_missing:
            - servicenow:
                instance_url: "myinstance"
                username: "${SERVICENOW_USERNAME}"
                password: "${SERVICENOW_PASSWORD}"
                short_description: "Schema Validation Failed: ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
                detailed_description: "Schema validation failed. Missing required fields detected."
                impact: "high"
                urgency: "high"
                state: "new"
                problem_id: "schema-ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
                category: "Data Quality"
                subcategory: "Schema Validation"
                cmdb_ci: "Data Pipeline"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    ServiceNow incident created when schema drift is detected...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### With Assignment

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Assigning incident to specific group and individual...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_name": "Database Connection Failed",
      "server": "db-server-01"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - servicenow:
        instance_url: "myinstance"
        username: "${SERVICENOW_USERNAME}"
        password: "${SERVICENOW_PASSWORD}"
        short_description: "{{ .alert_name }} on {{ .server }}"
        detailed_description: "Database connection cannot be established"
        impact: "high"
        urgency: "high"
        state: "new"
        problem_id: "db-{{ .server }}"
        assignment_group: "Database Team"
        category: "Database"
        cmdb_ci: "{{ .server }}"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Incident routed to Database Team for investigation...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

Commit message:

Enhance documentation for notification processors and schema drift detection integration

docs/configuration/pipelines/processors/servicenow.mdx, after:

---
description: Creates and updates incidents in ServiceNow
sidebar_custom_props:
  customIcon: 🔔
  customCategory: Notification
---

# ServiceNow

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--primary">Notification</span>

## Synopsis

Creates and updates incidents in ServiceNow using the Table API, supporting incident tracking via problem IDs, automatic state management, and configurable impact/urgency levels for IT service management integration.

## Schema

```yaml {2-5}
- servicenow:
    instance_url: <string>
    username: <string>
    password: <string>
    short_description: <string>
    detailed_description: <string>
    caller_id: <string>
    category: <string>
    subcategory: <string>
    company: <string>
    assignment_group: <string>
    assigned_to: <string>
    impact: <string>
    urgency: <string>
    state: <string>
    problem_id: <string>
    cmdb_ci: <string>
    close_notes: <string>
    close_code: <string>
    auto_close: <boolean>
    description: <text>
    if: <script>
    ignore_failure: <boolean>
    on_failure: <processor[]>
    on_success: <processor[]>
    tag: <string>
```

## Configuration

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`instance_url`|Y|-|ServiceNow instance URL or name (e.g., `myinstance` or `myinstance.service-now.com`)|
|`username`|Y|-|ServiceNow username. Defaults to `${SERVICENOW_USERNAME}` env variable.|
|`password`|Y|-|ServiceNow password. Defaults to `${SERVICENOW_PASSWORD}` env variable.|
|`short_description`|Y|-|Brief incident description (title)|
|`detailed_description`|N|-|Full incident description with details|
|`caller_id`|N|-|Sys_id or name of the user reporting the incident|
|`category`|N|-|Incident category|
|`subcategory`|N|-|Incident subcategory|
|`company`|N|-|Company associated with the incident|
|`assignment_group`|N|-|Group to assign the incident to|
|`assigned_to`|N|-|Individual to assign the incident to|
|`impact`|N|`low`|Business impact: `high`, `medium`, or `low`|
|`urgency`|N|`low`|How quickly resolution is needed: `high`, `medium`, or `low`|
|`state`|N|`new`|Incident state: `new`, `in_progress`, `on_hold`, `resolved`, or `closed`|
|`problem_id`|N|-|Unique identifier for tracking related incidents|
|`cmdb_ci`|N|-|Configuration Item from CMDB|
|`close_notes`|N|`Closed automatically`|Notes when closing incident|
|`close_code`|N|`Closed/Resolved by Caller`|Resolution code when closing|
|`auto_close`|N|`false`|Automatically set close fields when state is closed|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note|
|`if`|N|-|Condition to run|
|`ignore_failure`|N|`false`|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_failure`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_success`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-success">Handling Success</Topic>|
|`tag`|N|-|Identifier|

## Details

The servicenow processor creates and updates incidents in ServiceNow using the Table API.

**Instance URL**: Accepts either a full URL (`https://myinstance.service-now.com`) or just the instance name (`myinstance`). The processor automatically constructs the full URL when only the instance name is provided.

**Incident Tracking**: The `problem_id` field enables incident correlation. When set, the processor searches for existing open incidents with the same problem_id:
- If found: Updates the existing incident
- If not found: Creates a new incident

**State Management**: Control incident lifecycle through the `state` field:
- `new`: Newly created incident (default)
- `in_progress`: Work has started
- `on_hold`: Waiting for external action
- `resolved`: Issue fixed, awaiting verification
- `closed`: Incident completed

**Impact and Urgency**: These fields combine to determine incident priority:
- `high` or `critical`: Value 1 in ServiceNow
- `medium`: Value 2
- `low`: Value 3 (default)

**Auto Close**: When `auto_close: true` and state is `closed`, the processor automatically populates close_notes and close_code fields if not explicitly set.

**Template Support**: All string fields support Go template syntax with event field interpolation using `{{ .field_name }}`.

For integration patterns with schema validation, see <Topic id="pipelines-schema-drift-detection">Schema Drift Detection</Topic>.

## Examples

### Create Incident

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Creating a new ServiceNow incident...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "event_name": "Schema Drift Detected",
      "missing_fields": "EventCount, EventSchema",
      "severity": "high"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - servicenow:
        instance_url: "myinstance"
        username: "${SERVICENOW_USERNAME}"
        password: "${SERVICENOW_PASSWORD}"
        short_description: "Schema Drift: {{ .event_name }}"
        detailed_description: "Missing fields detected: {{ .missing_fields }}"
        impact: "{{ .severity }}"
        urgency: "high"
        state: "new"
        problem_id: "schema-drift-001"
        category: "Software"
        cmdb_ci: "DataPipeline"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    High-priority incident created in ServiceNow...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Update Existing Incident

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Updating an incident with the same problem_id...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "event_name": "Schema Drift Resolved",
      "missing_fields": "None",
      "severity": "low"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - servicenow:
        instance_url: "myinstance"
        username: "${SERVICENOW_USERNAME}"
        password: "${SERVICENOW_PASSWORD}"
        short_description: "Schema Drift: {{ .event_name }}"
        detailed_description: "Issue resolved. Missing fields: {{ .missing_fields }}"
        impact: "{{ .severity }}"
        urgency: "low"
        state: "resolved"
        problem_id: "schema-drift-001"
        category: "Software"
        cmdb_ci: "DataPipeline"
        auto_close: true
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Existing incident updated to resolved state...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Template Processing

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Using templates for dynamic incident details...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_name": "High CPU Usage",
      "server": "prod-server-01",
      "cpu_usage": "95%"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - servicenow:
        instance_url: "myinstance"
        username: "${SERVICENOW_USERNAME}"
        password: "${SERVICENOW_PASSWORD}"
        short_description: "[{{ .alert_name }}] on {{ .server }}"
        detailed_description: "CPU usage is at {{ .cpu_usage }} on server {{ .server }}"
        impact: "high"
        urgency: "high"
        state: "new"
        problem_id: "cpu-{{ .server }}"
        cmdb_ci: "{{ .server }}"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Incident created with templated values from event data...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Schema Drift Alert

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Creating incidents when schema validation fails...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    processors:
      - check_schema:
          schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
          target_field: "schema_check"
          on_missing:
            - servicenow:
                instance_url: "myinstance"
                username: "${SERVICENOW_USERNAME}"
                password: "${SERVICENOW_PASSWORD}"
                short_description: "Schema Validation Failed: ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
                detailed_description: "Schema validation failed. Missing required fields detected."
                impact: "high"
                urgency: "high"
                state: "new"
                problem_id: "schema-ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
                category: "Data Quality"
                subcategory: "Schema Validation"
                cmdb_ci: "Data Pipeline"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    ServiceNow incident created when schema drift is detected...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### With Assignment

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Assigning incident to specific group and individual...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_name": "Database Connection Failed",
      "server": "db-server-01"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - servicenow:
        instance_url: "myinstance"
        username: "${SERVICENOW_USERNAME}"
        password: "${SERVICENOW_PASSWORD}"
        short_description: "{{ .alert_name }} on {{ .server }}"
        detailed_description: "Database connection cannot be established"
        impact: "high"
        urgency: "high"
        state: "new"
        problem_id: "db-{{ .server }}"
        assignment_group: "Database Team"
        category: "Database"
        cmdb_ci: "{{ .server }}"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Incident routed to Database Team for investigation...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>
