docs/configuration/pipelines/processors/slack.mdx, before:

---
description: Sends alert notifications to Slack via webhook
sidebar_custom_props:
  customIcon: 🔔
  customCategory: Notification
---

# Slack

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--primary">Notification</span>

## Synopsis

Sends alert notifications to Slack channels using incoming webhooks, supporting message attachments with customizable colors, additional fields, and branding options.

## Schema

```yaml {2-4}
- slack:
    webhook_url: <string>
    title: <string>
    message: <string>
    username: <string>
    icon_url: <string>
    icon_emoji: <string>
    channel: <string>
    color: <string>
    fields: <field[]>
    description: <text>
    if: <script>
    ignore_failure: <boolean>
    on_failure: <processor[]>
    on_success: <processor[]>
    tag: <string>
```

## Configuration

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`webhook_url`|Y|-|Slack incoming webhook URL. Defaults to `${SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL}` env variable.|
|`title`|Y|-|Message title displayed prominently|
|`message`|Y|-|Main message body text|
|`username`|N|`VirtualMetric`|Bot username displayed in Slack|
|`icon_url`|N|VirtualMetric icon|URL to image used as bot avatar|
|`icon_emoji`|N|-|Emoji to use as bot avatar (overrides icon_url)|
|`channel`|N|-|Channel to post to (overrides webhook default)|
|`color`|N|`#47BEFF`|Attachment color: `good`, `warning`, `danger`, `info`, or hex code|
|`fields`|N|-|Array of field objects with `title`, `value`, and `short` fields|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note|
|`if`|N|-|Condition to run|
|`ignore_failure`|N|`false`|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_failure`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_success`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-success">Handling Success</Topic>|
|`tag`|N|-|Identifier|

## Details

The slack processor sends notifications to Slack channels using incoming webhooks.

**Webhook Setup**: Create an incoming webhook in Slack:
1. Go to your Slack workspace's App Directory
2. Search for "Incoming Webhooks" and add it
3. Choose a channel and create the webhook
4. Copy the webhook URL

**Colors**: Visual severity indicators for the message attachment sidebar:
- `good` / `green` / `success`: Green (#26A65B)
- `warning` / `yellow`: Orange (#FFB655)
- `danger` / `red` / `error` / `critical`: Red (#FB4946)
- `info` / `blue`: Blue (#47BEFF) - default
- Custom hex codes (e.g., `#FF5733`) for brand colors

**Fields**: Structured data displayed in the attachment:
```yaml
fields:
  - title: "Server"
    value: "{{ .hostname }}"
    short: true
  - title: "CPU"
    value: "{{ .cpu_usage }}%"
    short: true
```
Set `short: true` to display fields side-by-side.

**Channel Override**: The `channel` field overrides the webhook's default channel. Use `#channel-name` for public channels or `@username` for direct messages.

**Template Support**: All string fields support Go template syntax with event field interpolation using `{{ .field_name }}`.

## Examples

### Basic Alert

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Sending a simple alert notification...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_name": "High CPU Usage",
      "server": "prod-server-01",
      "cpu_usage": "95%"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - slack:
        webhook_url: "${SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL}"
        title: "Alert: {{ .alert_name }}"
        message: "CPU usage is at {{ .cpu_usage }} on server {{ .server }}"
        color: "danger"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Red-colored alert posted to Slack...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### With Fields

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Including structured data as fields...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_name": "Schema Drift Detected",
      "schema": "ASimNetworkSessionLogs",
      "missing": "3 required fields"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - slack:
        webhook_url: "${SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL}"
        title: "{{ .alert_name }}"
        message: "Schema validation failed"
        color: "warning"
        fields:
          - title: "Schema"
            value: "{{ .schema }}"
            short: true
          - title: "Missing Fields"
            value: "{{ .missing }}"
            short: true
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Fields displayed side-by-side in attachment...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Custom Username and Channel

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Overriding bot identity and target channel...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "bot_name": "AlertBot",
      "channel": "#alerts"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - slack:
        webhook_url: "${SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL}"
        username: "{{ .bot_name }}"
        channel: "{{ .channel }}"
        title: "System Alert"
        message: "This is a test alert"
        color: "info"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Message posted as AlertBot to #alerts channel...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Color Options

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Using different severity colors...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    # Success - green sidebar
    - slack:
        webhook_url: "${SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL}"
        title: "Deployment Complete"
        message: "Version 2.0 deployed successfully"
        color: "good"
    ```
    ```yaml
    # Warning - orange sidebar
    - slack:
        webhook_url: "${SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL}"
        title: "High Memory Usage"
        message: "Memory usage at 85%"
        color: "warning"
    ```
    ```yaml
    # Danger - red sidebar
    - slack:
        webhook_url: "${SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL}"
        title: "Service Down"
        message: "API service not responding"
        color: "danger"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Colors indicate severity at a glance...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Schema Drift Alert

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Alerting on schema validation failures...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    processors:
      - check_schema:
          schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
          target_field: "schema_check"
          on_missing:
            - slack:
                webhook_url: "${SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL}"
                title: "Schema Validation Failed: ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
                message: "Schema validation detected missing required fields"
                color: "danger"
                fields:
                  - title: "Schema"
                    value: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
                    short: true
                  - title: "Valid"
                    value: "{{ .schema_check.is_valid }}"
                    short: true
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Alert triggered automatically when schema drift detected...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

Commit message:

Enhance documentation for notification processors and schema drift detection integration

docs/configuration/pipelines/processors/slack.mdx, after:

---
description: Sends alert notifications to Slack via webhook
sidebar_custom_props:
  customIcon: 🔔
  customCategory: Notification
---

# Slack

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--primary">Notification</span>

## Synopsis

Sends alert notifications to Slack channels using incoming webhooks, supporting message attachments with customizable colors, additional fields, and branding options.

## Schema

```yaml {2-4}
- slack:
    webhook_url: <string>
    title: <string>
    message: <string>
    username: <string>
    icon_url: <string>
    icon_emoji: <string>
    channel: <string>
    color: <string>
    fields: <field[]>
    description: <text>
    if: <script>
    ignore_failure: <boolean>
    on_failure: <processor[]>
    on_success: <processor[]>
    tag: <string>
```

## Configuration

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`webhook_url`|Y|-|Slack incoming webhook URL. Defaults to `${SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL}` env variable.|
|`title`|Y|-|Message title displayed prominently|
|`message`|Y|-|Main message body text|
|`username`|N|`VirtualMetric`|Bot username displayed in Slack|
|`icon_url`|N|VirtualMetric icon|URL to image used as bot avatar|
|`icon_emoji`|N|-|Emoji to use as bot avatar (overrides icon_url)|
|`channel`|N|-|Channel to post to (overrides webhook default)|
|`color`|N|`#47BEFF`|Attachment color: `good`, `warning`, `danger`, `info`, or hex code|
|`fields`|N|-|Array of field objects with `title`, `value`, and `short` fields|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note|
|`if`|N|-|Condition to run|
|`ignore_failure`|N|`false`|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_failure`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_success`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-success">Handling Success</Topic>|
|`tag`|N|-|Identifier|

## Details

The slack processor sends notifications to Slack channels using incoming webhooks.

**Webhook Setup**: Create an incoming webhook in Slack:
1. Go to your Slack workspace's App Directory
2. Search for "Incoming Webhooks" and add it
3. Choose a channel and create the webhook
4. Copy the webhook URL

**Colors**: Visual severity indicators for the message attachment sidebar:
- `good` / `green` / `success`: Green (#26A65B)
- `warning` / `yellow`: Orange (#FFB655)
- `danger` / `red` / `error` / `critical`: Red (#FB4946)
- `info` / `blue`: Blue (#47BEFF) - default
- Custom hex codes (e.g., `#FF5733`) for brand colors

**Fields**: Structured data displayed in the attachment:
```yaml
fields:
  - title: "Server"
    value: "{{ .hostname }}"
    short: true
  - title: "CPU"
    value: "{{ .cpu_usage }}%"
    short: true
```
Set `short: true` to display fields side-by-side.

**Channel Override**: The `channel` field overrides the webhook's default channel. Use `#channel-name` for public channels or `@username` for direct messages.

**Template Support**: All string fields support Go template syntax with event field interpolation using `{{ .field_name }}`.

For integration patterns with schema validation, see <Topic id="pipelines-schema-drift-detection">Schema Drift Detection</Topic>.

## Examples

### Basic Alert

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Sending a simple alert notification...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_name": "High CPU Usage",
      "server": "prod-server-01",
      "cpu_usage": "95%"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - slack:
        webhook_url: "${SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL}"
        title: "Alert: {{ .alert_name }}"
        message: "CPU usage is at {{ .cpu_usage }} on server {{ .server }}"
        color: "danger"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Red-colored alert posted to Slack...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### With Fields

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Including structured data as fields...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_name": "Schema Drift Detected",
      "schema": "ASimNetworkSessionLogs",
      "missing": "3 required fields"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - slack:
        webhook_url: "${SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL}"
        title: "{{ .alert_name }}"
        message: "Schema validation failed"
        color: "warning"
        fields:
          - title: "Schema"
            value: "{{ .schema }}"
            short: true
          - title: "Missing Fields"
            value: "{{ .missing }}"
            short: true
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Fields displayed side-by-side in attachment...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Custom Username and Channel

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Overriding bot identity and target channel...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "bot_name": "AlertBot",
      "channel": "#alerts"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - slack:
        webhook_url: "${SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL}"
        username: "{{ .bot_name }}"
        channel: "{{ .channel }}"
        title: "System Alert"
        message: "This is a test alert"
        color: "info"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Message posted as AlertBot to #alerts channel...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Color Options

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Using different severity colors...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    # Success - green sidebar
    - slack:
        webhook_url: "${SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL}"
        title: "Deployment Complete"
        message: "Version 2.0 deployed successfully"
        color: "good"
    ```
    ```yaml
    # Warning - orange sidebar
    - slack:
        webhook_url: "${SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL}"
        title: "High Memory Usage"
        message: "Memory usage at 85%"
        color: "warning"
    ```
    ```yaml
    # Danger - red sidebar
    - slack:
        webhook_url: "${SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL}"
        title: "Service Down"
        message: "API service not responding"
        color: "danger"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Colors indicate severity at a glance...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Schema Drift Alert

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Alerting on schema validation failures...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    processors:
      - check_schema:
          schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
          target_field: "schema_check"
          on_missing:
            - slack:
                webhook_url: "${SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL}"
                title: "Schema Validation Failed: ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
                message: "Schema validation detected missing required fields"
                color: "danger"
                fields:
                  - title: "Schema"
                    value: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
                    short: true
                  - title: "Valid"
                    value: "{{ .schema_check.is_valid }}"
                    short: true
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Alert triggered automatically when schema drift detected...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>
