docs/configuration/pipelines/processors/split.mdx, before:

---
description: Split a string on a separator
sidebar_custom_props: 
  customIcon: ➗
  customCategory: Data Manipulation
---

# Split

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--primary">Mutate</span><span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Elastic Compatible</span>

## Synopsis

Splits a string field into an array using a specified separator pattern.

## Schema

```yaml {2,3}
- split:
    field: <ident>
    separator: <char>
    description: <text>
    if: <script>
    ignore_failure: <boolean>
    ignore_missing: <boolean>
    on_failure: <processor[]>
    on_success: <processor[]>
    preserve_trailing: <boolean>
    tag: <string>
    target_field: <ident>
```

## Configuration

The following fields are used to define the processor:

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`field`|Y|-|Field containing the string to split|
|`separator`|Y|-|Character or regular expression pattern to use as separator|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note|
|`if`|N|-|Condition to run|
|`ignore_failure`|N|`false`|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`ignore_missing`|N|`false`|If `true`, quietly exit if field doesn't exist|
|`on_failure`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_success`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-success">Handling Success</Topic>|
|`preserve_trailing`|N|`false`|If `true`, preserve empty trailing values|
|`tag`|N|-|Identifier|
|`target_field`|N|`field`|Field to store the resulting array|

## Details

When splitting strings, the processor supports both basic string separators and advanced regular expression patterns. The result is stored as an array either in the original field or in a specified target field.

:::note
Regular expressions are cached for better performance when reused.
:::

:::warning
The field must contain a string value, otherwise the processor will fail unless `ignore_failure` is set to `true`.
:::

## Examples

### Basic

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Split string using comma separator...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "data": "one,two,three"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - split:
        field: data
        separator: ","
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    to create an array of values:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "data": ["one", "two", "three"]
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Trailing Values

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Enabling `preserve_trailing`...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "data": "one,two,three,"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - split:
        field: data
        separator: ","
        preserve_trailing: true
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    keeps empty trailing elements:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "data": ["one", "two", "three", ""]
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Regular Expressions

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Splitting on multiple whitespace characters...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "message": "hello   world     test"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - split:
        field: message
        separator: '\s+'
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    treats consecutive spaces as one separator:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "message": ["hello", "world", "test"]
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Keep Original

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Storing the result in a new field...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "tags": "important,urgent,review"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - split:
        field: tags
        separator: ","
        target_field: tag_array
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    preserves the original:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "tags": "important,urgent,review",
      "tag_array": ["important", "urgent", "review"]
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

Commit message:

Update processor documentation to clarify schema fields and default values for various processors, including acl-decode, append, azure-openai, binary-decode, camel-case, color-decode, comment, compact, data-size, dot-case, drop, go-to, humanize, kebab-case, lowercase, move, set, snowflake, sort, split, text-wrap, and virustotal.

docs/configuration/pipelines/processors/split.mdx, after:

---
description: Split a string on a separator
sidebar_custom_props: 
  customIcon: ➗
  customCategory: Data Manipulation
---

# Split

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--primary">Mutate</span><span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Elastic Compatible</span>

## Synopsis

Splits a string field into an array using a specified separator pattern.

## Schema

```yaml {2,3}
- split:
    field: <ident>
    separator: <char>
    target_field: <ident>
    target_fields: <string[]>
    preserve_trailing: <boolean>
    description: <text>
    if: <script>
    ignore_failure: <boolean>
    ignore_missing: <boolean>
    on_failure: <processor[]>
    on_success: <processor[]>
    tag: <string>
```

## Configuration

The following fields are used to define the processor:

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`field`|Y|-|Field containing the string to split|
|`separator`|Y|-|Character or regular expression pattern to use as separator|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note|
|`if`|N|-|Condition to run|
|`ignore_failure`|N|`false`|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`ignore_missing`|N|`false`|If `true`, quietly exit if field doesn't exist|
|`on_failure`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_success`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-success">Handling Success</Topic>|
|`target_field`|N|`field`|Field to store the resulting array|
|`target_fields`|N|-|Array of fields to store split values individually|
|`preserve_trailing`|N|`false`|If `true`, preserve empty trailing values|
|`tag`|N|-|Identifier|

## Details

When splitting strings, the processor supports both basic string separators and advanced regular expression patterns. The result is stored as an array either in the original field or in a specified target field.

:::note
Regular expressions are cached for better performance when reused.
:::

:::warning
The field must contain a string value, otherwise the processor will fail unless `ignore_failure` is set to `true`.
:::

## Examples

### Basic

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Split string using comma separator...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "data": "one,two,three"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - split:
        field: data
        separator: ","
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    to create an array of values:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "data": ["one", "two", "three"]
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Trailing Values

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Enabling `preserve_trailing`...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "data": "one,two,three,"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - split:
        field: data
        separator: ","
        preserve_trailing: true
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    keeps empty trailing elements:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "data": ["one", "two", "three", ""]
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Regular Expressions

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Splitting on multiple whitespace characters...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "message": "hello   world     test"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - split:
        field: message
        separator: '\s+'
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    treats consecutive spaces as one separator:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "message": ["hello", "world", "test"]
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Keep Original

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Storing the result in a new field...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "tags": "important,urgent,review"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - split:
        field: tags
        separator: ","
        target_field: tag_array
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    preserves the original:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "tags": "important,urgent,review",
      "tag_array": ["important", "urgent", "review"]
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>
