docs/configuration/pipelines/processors/telegram.mdx, before:

---
description: Sends alert notifications to Telegram via Bot API
sidebar_custom_props:
  customIcon: 🔔
  customCategory: Notification
---

# Telegram

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--primary">Notification</span>

## Synopsis

Sends alert notifications to Telegram chats using the Bot API, supporting HTML and Markdown formatting, severity-based emojis, silent notifications, and configurable message options.

## Schema

```yaml {2-4}
- telegram:
    bot_token: <string>
    chat_id: <string>
    message: <string>
    parse_mode: <string>
    disable_notification: <boolean>
    disable_web_page_preview: <boolean>
    severity: <string>
    description: <text>
    if: <script>
    ignore_failure: <boolean>
    on_failure: <processor[]>
    on_success: <processor[]>
    tag: <string>
```

## Configuration

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`bot_token`|Y|-|Telegram bot token. Defaults to `${TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN}` env variable.|
|`chat_id`|Y|-|Target chat ID (user, group, or channel). Defaults to `${TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID}` env variable.|
|`message`|Y|-|Message text to send|
|`parse_mode`|N|`HTML`|Text formatting mode: `HTML`, `Markdown`, or `MarkdownV2`|
|`disable_notification`|N|`false`|Send message silently without notification sound|
|`disable_web_page_preview`|N|`false`|Disable link preview generation|
|`severity`|N|-|Severity level for emoji prefix: `info`, `warning`, `critical`, or `resolved`|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note|
|`if`|N|-|Condition to run|
|`ignore_failure`|N|`false`|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_failure`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_success`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-success">Handling Success</Topic>|
|`tag`|N|-|Identifier|

## Details

The telegram processor sends notifications to Telegram chats using the Bot API.

**Bot Setup**: Create a Telegram bot:
1. Message [@BotFather](https://t.me/botfather) on Telegram
2. Send `/newbot` and follow the prompts
3. Copy the bot token provided
4. Add the bot to your target chat/group/channel

**Chat ID**: The target for messages. Types include:
- Positive numbers: Private chats with users
- Negative numbers: Group chats (e.g., `-1001234567890`)
- Channel usernames: `@channelname`

**Parse Modes**: Control text formatting:
- `HTML`: Use HTML tags (`<b>`, `<i>`, `<code>`, `<a href="">`, etc.)
- `Markdown`: Use Markdown syntax (`*bold*`, `_italic_`, backticks for code)
- `MarkdownV2`: Enhanced Markdown with more features

**Severity Emojis**: When `severity` is set, an emoji prefix is added:
- `resolved` / `success` / `good`: ✔️
- `critical` / `danger` / `error`: ‼️
- `warning` / `high`: ⚠️
- `info` / `low`: ℹ️

**Silent Notifications**: Set `disable_notification: true` for non-urgent messages that shouldn't trigger notification sounds.

**Template Support**: All string fields support Go template syntax with event field interpolation using `{{ .field_name }}`.

## Examples

### Basic Alert

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Sending a simple alert notification...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_name": "High CPU Usage",
      "server": "prod-server-01",
      "cpu_usage": "95%"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - telegram:
        bot_token: "${TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN}"
        chat_id: "${TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID}"
        message: "Alert: {{ .alert_name }}\nCPU usage is at {{ .cpu_usage }} on server {{ .server }}"
        severity: "critical"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Message sent with ‼️ critical emoji prefix...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### HTML Formatting

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Using HTML formatting for rich messages...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_type": "Schema Drift",
      "schema": "ASimNetworkSessionLogs",
      "missing": "3 required fields"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - telegram:
        bot_token: "${TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN}"
        chat_id: "${TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID}"
        message: "<b>{{ .alert_type }} Detected</b>\n<i>Schema:</i> {{ .schema }}\n<u>Missing:</u> {{ .missing }}"
        parse_mode: "HTML"
        severity: "warning"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Bold title with italic and underlined labels...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Markdown Formatting

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Using Markdown for simpler formatting...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "server": "db-server-01",
      "status": "Connection Failed",
      "details": "Unable to establish connection"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - telegram:
        bot_token: "${TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN}"
        chat_id: "${TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID}"
        message: "*Server:* {{ .server }}\n*Status:* {{ .status }}\n_Details:_ {{ .details }}"
        parse_mode: "Markdown"
        severity: "critical"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Markdown formatting with bold and italic text...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Silent Notification

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Sending non-urgent information silently...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "info": "System maintenance scheduled"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - telegram:
        bot_token: "${TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN}"
        chat_id: "${TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID}"
        message: "{{ .info }}"
        disable_notification: true
        severity: "info"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Message delivered without notification sound...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Complete Alert

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Full-featured alert with all formatting options...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_type": "Critical System Alert",
      "server": "prod-web-01",
      "cpu_usage": "95%",
      "memory_used": "87%",
      "disk_space": "92%",
      "uptime": "45 days",
      "dashboard": "https://monitoring.example.com/prod-web-01"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - telegram:
        bot_token: "${TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN}"
        chat_id: "${TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID}"
        message: |
          <b>{{ .alert_type }}</b>

          <b>Server:</b> <code>{{ .server }}</code>
          <b>Uptime:</b> {{ .uptime }}

          <b>Resource Usage:</b>
          • CPU: {{ .cpu_usage }}
          • Memory: {{ .memory_used }}
          • Disk: {{ .disk_space }}

          <a href="{{ .dashboard }}">View Dashboard</a>

          <i>Action required: Resources critically high</i>
        parse_mode: "HTML"
        severity: "critical"
        disable_web_page_preview: false
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Rich formatted message with dashboard link preview...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Schema Drift Alert

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Alerting on schema validation failures...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    processors:
      - check_schema:
          schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
          target_field: "schema_check"
          on_missing:
            - telegram:
                bot_token: "${TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN}"
                chat_id: "${TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID}"
                message: |
                  <b>Schema Validation Failed</b>

                  <b>Schema:</b> ASimNetworkSessionLogs
                  <b>Status:</b> Invalid

                  <i>Please update your schema to include all required fields.</i>
                parse_mode: "HTML"
                severity: "warning"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Alert triggered automatically when schema drift detected...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Dynamic Chat ID

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Routing messages to different chats based on event data...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "chat_id": "-1001234567890",
      "message": "Alert for specific team"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - telegram:
        bot_token: "${TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN}"
        chat_id: "{{ .chat_id }}"
        message: "{{ .message }}"
        severity: "info"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Message routed to team-specific chat...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

Commit message:

Enhance documentation for notification processors and schema drift detection integration

docs/configuration/pipelines/processors/telegram.mdx, after:

---
description: Sends alert notifications to Telegram via Bot API
sidebar_custom_props:
  customIcon: 🔔
  customCategory: Notification
---

# Telegram

<span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--primary">Notification</span>

## Synopsis

Sends alert notifications to Telegram chats using the Bot API, supporting HTML and Markdown formatting, severity-based emojis, silent notifications, and configurable message options.

## Schema

```yaml {2-4}
- telegram:
    bot_token: <string>
    chat_id: <string>
    message: <string>
    parse_mode: <string>
    disable_notification: <boolean>
    disable_web_page_preview: <boolean>
    severity: <string>
    description: <text>
    if: <script>
    ignore_failure: <boolean>
    on_failure: <processor[]>
    on_success: <processor[]>
    tag: <string>
```

## Configuration

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`bot_token`|Y|-|Telegram bot token. Defaults to `${TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN}` env variable.|
|`chat_id`|Y|-|Target chat ID (user, group, or channel). Defaults to `${TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID}` env variable.|
|`message`|Y|-|Message text to send|
|`parse_mode`|N|`HTML`|Text formatting mode: `HTML`, `Markdown`, or `MarkdownV2`|
|`disable_notification`|N|`false`|Send message silently without notification sound|
|`disable_web_page_preview`|N|`false`|Disable link preview generation|
|`severity`|N|-|Severity level for emoji prefix: `info`, `warning`, `critical`, or `resolved`|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note|
|`if`|N|-|Condition to run|
|`ignore_failure`|N|`false`|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_failure`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-failures">Handling Failures</Topic>|
|`on_success`|N|-|See <Topic id="pipelines-handling-success">Handling Success</Topic>|
|`tag`|N|-|Identifier|

## Details

The telegram processor sends notifications to Telegram chats using the Bot API.

**Bot Setup**: Create a Telegram bot:
1. Message [@BotFather](https://t.me/botfather) on Telegram
2. Send `/newbot` and follow the prompts
3. Copy the bot token provided
4. Add the bot to your target chat/group/channel

**Chat ID**: The target for messages. Types include:
- Positive numbers: Private chats with users
- Negative numbers: Group chats (e.g., `-1001234567890`)
- Channel usernames: `@channelname`

**Parse Modes**: Control text formatting:
- `HTML`: Use HTML tags (`<b>`, `<i>`, `<code>`, `<a href="">`, etc.)
- `Markdown`: Use Markdown syntax (`*bold*`, `_italic_`, backticks for code)
- `MarkdownV2`: Enhanced Markdown with more features

**Severity Emojis**: When `severity` is set, an emoji prefix is added:
- `resolved` / `success` / `good`: ✔️
- `critical` / `danger` / `error`: ‼️
- `warning` / `high`: ⚠️
- `info` / `low`: ℹ️

**Silent Notifications**: Set `disable_notification: true` for non-urgent messages that shouldn't trigger notification sounds.

**Template Support**: All string fields support Go template syntax with event field interpolation using `{{ .field_name }}`.

For integration patterns with schema validation, see <Topic id="pipelines-schema-drift-detection">Schema Drift Detection</Topic>.

## Examples

### Basic Alert

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Sending a simple alert notification...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_name": "High CPU Usage",
      "server": "prod-server-01",
      "cpu_usage": "95%"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - telegram:
        bot_token: "${TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN}"
        chat_id: "${TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID}"
        message: "Alert: {{ .alert_name }}\nCPU usage is at {{ .cpu_usage }} on server {{ .server }}"
        severity: "critical"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Message sent with ‼️ critical emoji prefix...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### HTML Formatting

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Using HTML formatting for rich messages...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_type": "Schema Drift",
      "schema": "ASimNetworkSessionLogs",
      "missing": "3 required fields"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - telegram:
        bot_token: "${TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN}"
        chat_id: "${TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID}"
        message: "<b>{{ .alert_type }} Detected</b>\n<i>Schema:</i> {{ .schema }}\n<u>Missing:</u> {{ .missing }}"
        parse_mode: "HTML"
        severity: "warning"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Bold title with italic and underlined labels...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Markdown Formatting

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Using Markdown for simpler formatting...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "server": "db-server-01",
      "status": "Connection Failed",
      "details": "Unable to establish connection"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - telegram:
        bot_token: "${TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN}"
        chat_id: "${TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID}"
        message: "*Server:* {{ .server }}\n*Status:* {{ .status }}\n_Details:_ {{ .details }}"
        parse_mode: "Markdown"
        severity: "critical"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Markdown formatting with bold and italic text...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Silent Notification

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Sending non-urgent information silently...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "info": "System maintenance scheduled"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - telegram:
        bot_token: "${TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN}"
        chat_id: "${TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID}"
        message: "{{ .info }}"
        disable_notification: true
        severity: "info"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Message delivered without notification sound...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Complete Alert

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Full-featured alert with all formatting options...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "alert_type": "Critical System Alert",
      "server": "prod-web-01",
      "cpu_usage": "95%",
      "memory_used": "87%",
      "disk_space": "92%",
      "uptime": "45 days",
      "dashboard": "https://monitoring.example.com/prod-web-01"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - telegram:
        bot_token: "${TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN}"
        chat_id: "${TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID}"
        message: |
          <b>{{ .alert_type }}</b>

          <b>Server:</b> <code>{{ .server }}</code>
          <b>Uptime:</b> {{ .uptime }}

          <b>Resource Usage:</b>
          • CPU: {{ .cpu_usage }}
          • Memory: {{ .memory_used }}
          • Disk: {{ .disk_space }}

          <a href="{{ .dashboard }}">View Dashboard</a>

          <i>Action required: Resources critically high</i>
        parse_mode: "HTML"
        severity: "critical"
        disable_web_page_preview: false
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Rich formatted message with dashboard link preview...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Schema Drift Alert

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Alerting on schema validation failures...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```yaml
    processors:
      - check_schema:
          schema: "ASimNetworkSessionLogs"
          target_field: "schema_check"
          on_missing:
            - telegram:
                bot_token: "${TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN}"
                chat_id: "${TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID}"
                message: |
                  <b>Schema Validation Failed</b>

                  <b>Schema:</b> ASimNetworkSessionLogs
                  <b>Status:</b> Invalid

                  <i>Please update your schema to include all required fields.</i>
                parse_mode: "HTML"
                severity: "warning"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Alert triggered automatically when schema drift detected...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Dynamic Chat ID

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Routing messages to different chats based on event data...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "chat_id": "-1001234567890",
      "message": "Alert for specific team"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    - telegram:
        bot_token: "${TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN}"
        chat_id: "{{ .chat_id }}"
        message: "{{ .message }}"
        severity: "info"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    Message routed to team-specific chat...
  </CommentCol>
</ExampleGrid>
