docs/administration/pipelines/processors/fail.mdx, before:

---
description: Raises failures when conditions are met
---

# Fail

## Synopsis

```yaml {2}
fail:
  - message: <string>
  - description: <text>
  - if: <script>
  - ignore_failure: <boolean>
  - on_failure: <processor[]>
  - on_success: <processor[]>
  - tag: <string>
```

## Description

Intentionally fails the pipeline with a custom error message. The message can include templates that reference document fields.

## Parameters

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`message`|Y|-|Error message to display. Supports templates using `{{field}}` syntax|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note for documentation|
|`if`|N|-|Condition determining when to fail|
|`ignore_failure`|N|`false`|If `true`, the failure is logged but processing continues|
|`on_failure`|N|-|See [Handling Failures](../handling-failures.mdx)|
|`on_success`|N|-|See [Handling Success](../handling-success.mdx)|
|`tag`|N|-|Identifier for the failure point|

## Details

This processor is particularly useful for validation with context-specific error messages, business rule enforcement, conditional pipeline termination, and debug and testing scenarios. 

The common use cases for the processor:

* **Validation with Context** 
   ```yaml
   fail:
     - message: "Invalid amount {{amount}} for currency {{currency}}"
     - if: "ctx.amount <= 0"
   ```

* **Access Control**
   ```yaml
   fail:
     - message: "User {{user.name}} lacks required permission: {{required_permission}}"
     - if: "!ctx.user.permissions.contains(ctx.required_permission)"
   ```

* **Data Quality**
   ```yaml
   fail:
     - message: "Field {{field_name}} exceeds maximum length of {{max_length}}"
     - if: "ctx.field_name.length() > ctx.max_length"
   ```

:::warning
Template fields must exist in the document or the processor will fail.
:::

Complex conditions should be tested thoroughly as they can lead to unexpected failures.

Whenever possible, use templates to create clear, context-specific error messages: include relevant field values in error messages for debugging, use `tag` for error categorization, and add `description` to document failure conditions.

:::note
When `ignore_failure` is set to `true`, errors are still logged but they don't stop the processing.
:::

## Examples

### Basic Failure

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Simple failure with static message...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "field": "value"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    fail:
      - message: "Intentional failure"
      - tag: "test"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    produces an error message:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "error": {
        "message": "Intentional failure",
        "tag": "test"
      }
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Templates

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Use document fields...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "user": {
        "id": "12345",
        "role": "guest"
      },
      "resource": "admin_panel"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    fail:
      - message: "User {{user.id}} with role {{user.role}} cannot access {{resource}}"
      - if: "ctx.user.role != 'admin'"
      - tag: "access_control"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    to create detailed error messages:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "error": {
        "message": "User 12345 with role guest cannot access admin_panel",
        "tag": "access_control"
      }
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Conditionals

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Document content can be used to state conditions...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "condition": true
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    fail:
      - message: "Conditional failure triggered"
      - if: "ctx.condition == true"
      - description: "Fail when condition is true"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    to fail when they are met:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "error": {
        "message": "Conditional failure triggered"
      }
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Ignored Failure

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Continuing despite failures...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "status": "warning"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    fail:
      - message: "Warning status detected"
      - ignore_failure: true
      - tag: "status_check"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    logs the error without terminating:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "status": "warning",
      "error": {
        "message": "Warning status detected",
        "tag": "status_check"
      }
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

Commit message:

Updated processor front matter strings

docs/administration/pipelines/processors/fail.mdx, after:

---
description: Raises failures when conditions are met
---

# Fail

## Synopsis

```yaml {2}
fail:
  - message: <string>
  - description: <text>
  - if: <script>
  - ignore_failure: <boolean>
  - on_failure: <processor[]>
  - on_success: <processor[]>
  - tag: <string>
```

## Description

Intentionally fails the pipeline with a custom error message on a certain condition.

## Parameters

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`message`|Y|-|Error message to display. Supports templates using `{{field}}` syntax|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note for documentation|
|`if`|N|-|Condition determining when to fail|
|`ignore_failure`|N|`false`|If `true`, the failure is logged but processing continues|
|`on_failure`|N|-|See [Handling Failures](../handling-failures.mdx)|
|`on_success`|N|-|See [Handling Success](../handling-success.mdx)|
|`tag`|N|-|Identifier for the failure point|

## Details

This processor is particularly useful for validation with context-specific error messages, business rule enforcement, conditional pipeline termination, and debug and testing scenarios. 

The message can include templates that reference document fields.

Typical uses:

* **Validation with Context** 

   ```yaml
   fail:
     - message: "Invalid amount {{amount}} for currency {{currency}}"
     - if: "ctx.amount <= 0"
   ```

* **Access Control**

   ```yaml
   fail:
     - message: "User {{user.name}} lacks required permission: {{required_permission}}"
     - if: "!ctx.user.permissions.contains(ctx.required_permission)"
   ```

* **Data Quality**

   ```yaml
   fail:
     - message: "Field {{field_name}} exceeds maximum length of {{max_length}}"
     - if: "ctx.field_name.length() > ctx.max_length"
   ```

:::warning
Template fields must exist in the document or the processor will fail.
:::

Complex conditions should be tested thoroughly as they can lead to unexpected failures.

Whenever possible, use templates to create clear, context-specific error messages: include relevant field values in error messages for debugging, use `tag` for error categorization, and add `description` to document failure conditions.

:::note
When `ignore_failure` is set to `true`, errors are still logged but they don't stop the execution.
:::

## Examples

### Basic Failure

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Simple failure with static message...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "field": "value"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    fail:
      - message: "Intentional failure"
      - tag: "test"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    produces an error message:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "error": {
        "message": "Intentional failure",
        "tag": "test"
      }
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Templates

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Use document fields...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "user": {
        "id": "12345",
        "role": "guest"
      },
      "resource": "admin_panel"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    fail:
      - message: "User {{user.id}} with role {{user.role}} cannot access {{resource}}"
      - if: "ctx.user.role != 'admin'"
      - tag: "access_control"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    to create detailed error messages:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "error": {
        "message": "User 12345 with role guest cannot access admin_panel",
        "tag": "access_control"
      }
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Conditionals

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Document content can be used to state conditions...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "condition": true
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    fail:
      - message: "Conditional failure triggered"
      - if: "ctx.condition == true"
      - description: "Fail when condition is true"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    to fail when they are met:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "error": {
        "message": "Conditional failure triggered"
      }
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Ignored Failure

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Continuing despite failures...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "status": "warning"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    fail:
      - message: "Warning status detected"
      - ignore_failure: true
      - tag: "status_check"
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    logs the error without terminating:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "status": "warning",
      "error": {
        "message": "Warning status detected",
        "tag": "status_check"
      }
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>
