docs/administration/pipelines/processors/syslog.mdx, before:

---
description: Parses syslog messages
---

# Syslog

<span class="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--primary">Parse</span><span class="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Elastic Compatible</span>

## Synopsis

Parses syslog messages into structured objects containing priority, facility, severity, hostname, application name, process ID, and message content.

## Schema

```yaml {2}
syslog:
  - field: <ident>
  - description: <text>
  - if: <script>
  - ignore_failure: <boolean>
  - ignore_missing: <boolean>
  - on_failure: <processor[]>
  - on_success: <processor[]>
  - tag: <string>
  - target_field: <ident>
```

## Configuration

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`field`|Y|-|Field containing the syslog message|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note|
|`if`|N|-|Condition to run|
|`ignore_failure`|N|`false`|See [Handling Failures](../handling-failures.mdx)|
|`ignore_missing`|N|`false`|If `true`, quietly exit if field doesn't exist|
|`on_failure`|N|-|See [Handling Failures](../handling-failures.mdx)|
|`on_success`|N|-|See [Handling Success](../handling-success.mdx)|
|`tag`|N|-|Identifier|
|`target_field`|N|`log.syslog`|Field to store the parsed syslog object|

## Details

The processor supports:

- RFC 3164 (BSD-style) syslog messages
- RFC 5424 (modern format) syslog messages with structured data
- Common Event Format (CEF) messages
- Log Event Extended Format (LEEF) messages

:::warning
The field must contain a valid syslog message string that conforms to one of the supported formats. Invalid messages will cause the processor to fail unless `ignore_failure` is set to `true`.
:::

## Examples

### Basic

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Parsing a basic syslog message...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "syslog_message": "<190>Jul 23 18:07:21 dhcp6c[10256]: add an address 2a02:cf40:72dc:dd12:7378:913c:b42e:099c/128 on igb0"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    syslog:
      - field: syslog_message
      - target_field: parsed_syslog
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    extracts message components:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "parsed_syslog": {
        "priority": 190,
        "facility": {
          "code": 23,
          "name": "Local 7"
        },
        "severity": {
          "code": 6,
          "name": "Informational"
        },
        "appname": "dhcp6c",
        "pid": 10256,
        "message": "add an address 2a02:cf40:72dc:dd12:7378:913c:b42e:099c/128 on igb0"
      }
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Metadata

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Parsing an RFC 5424 format message...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "syslog_message": "<134>1 2022-06-09T14:44:11-06:00 OPNsense.example.com filterlog 76404 - [meta sequenceId=\"1\"] 124,,,fae559338f65e11c53669fc3642c93c2,ixl1_vlan70,match,pass,out"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    syslog:
      - field: syslog_message
      - target_field: parsed_syslog
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    includes the structured data:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "parsed_syslog": {
        "priority": 134,
        "facility": {
          "code": 16,
          "name": "Local 0"
        },
        "severity": {
          "code": 6,
          "name": "Informational"
        },
        "hostname": "OPNsense.example.com",
        "appname": "filterlog",
        "pid": 76404,
        "message": "124,,,fae559338f65e11c53669fc3642c93c2,ixl1_vlan70,match,pass,out"
      }
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### CEF

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Parsing a Cisco Firepower CEF message...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "syslog_message": "<134>MAR  1 16:23:11 policyuuid CEF:0|Cisco|Firepower|6.0|PV:112:1234:5678|POLICY VIOLATION|5|rt=1687855290000;deviceExternalId=12;act=Alerted;dvchost=10.50.60.100"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    syslog:
      - field: syslog_message
      - target_field: parsed_syslog
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    extracts the CEF data:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "parsed_syslog": {
        "priority": 134,
        "facility": {
          "code": 16,
          "name": "Local 0"
        },
        "severity": {
          "code": 6,
          "name": "Informational"
        },
        "hostname": "policyuuid",
        "message": "CEF:0|Cisco|Firepower|6.0|PV:112:1234:5678|POLICY VIOLATION|5|rt=1687855290000;deviceExternalId=12;act=Alerted;dvchost=10.50.60.100"
      }
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Error Messages

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Parsing the error level messages...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "syslog_message": "<27>1 2021-07-03T22:17:01.074560-05:00 pfSense.example.com openvpn 66026 - - TLS Error: cannot locate HMAC in incoming packet from [AF_INET]175.16.199.1:34745"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    syslog:
      - field: syslog_message
      - target_field: parsed_syslog
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    correctly identifies the severity:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "parsed_syslog": {
        "priority": 27,
        "facility": {
          "code": 3,
          "name": "System"
        },
        "severity": {
          "code": 3,
          "name": "Error"
        },
        "hostname": "pfSense.example.com",
        "appname": "openvpn",
        "pid": 66026,
        "message": "TLS Error: cannot locate HMAC in incoming packet from [AF_INET]175.16.199.1:34745"
      }
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

Commit message:

Completed the ECS section of appendix; added links to appendix sections

docs/administration/pipelines/processors/syslog.mdx, after:

---
description: Parses syslog messages
---

# Syslog

<span class="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--primary">Parse</span><span class="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary">Elastic Compatible</span>

## Synopsis

Parses syslog messages into structured objects containing priority, facility, severity, hostname, application name, process ID, and message content.

:::note
See [**Appendix**](/docs/appendix.mdx#syslog) for details of the format.
:::

## Schema

```yaml {2}
syslog:
  - field: <ident>
  - description: <text>
  - if: <script>
  - ignore_failure: <boolean>
  - ignore_missing: <boolean>
  - on_failure: <processor[]>
  - on_success: <processor[]>
  - tag: <string>
  - target_field: <ident>
```

## Configuration

|Field|Required|Default|Description|
|---|---|---|---|
|`field`|Y|-|Field containing the syslog message|
|`description`|N|-|Explanatory note|
|`if`|N|-|Condition to run|
|`ignore_failure`|N|`false`|See [Handling Failures](../handling-failures.mdx)|
|`ignore_missing`|N|`false`|If `true`, quietly exit if field doesn't exist|
|`on_failure`|N|-|See [Handling Failures](../handling-failures.mdx)|
|`on_success`|N|-|See [Handling Success](../handling-success.mdx)|
|`tag`|N|-|Identifier|
|`target_field`|N|`log.syslog`|Field to store the parsed syslog object|

## Details

The processor supports:

- RFC 3164 (BSD-style) syslog messages
- RFC 5424 (modern format) syslog messages with structured data
- Common Event Format (CEF) messages
- Log Event Extended Format (LEEF) messages

:::warning
The field must contain a valid syslog message string that conforms to one of the supported formats. Invalid messages will cause the processor to fail unless `ignore_failure` is set to `true`.
:::

## Examples

### Basic

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Parsing a basic syslog message...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "syslog_message": "<190>Jul 23 18:07:21 dhcp6c[10256]: add an address 2a02:cf40:72dc:dd12:7378:913c:b42e:099c/128 on igb0"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    syslog:
      - field: syslog_message
      - target_field: parsed_syslog
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    extracts message components:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "parsed_syslog": {
        "priority": 190,
        "facility": {
          "code": 23,
          "name": "Local 7"
        },
        "severity": {
          "code": 6,
          "name": "Informational"
        },
        "appname": "dhcp6c",
        "pid": 10256,
        "message": "add an address 2a02:cf40:72dc:dd12:7378:913c:b42e:099c/128 on igb0"
      }
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Metadata

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Parsing an RFC 5424 format message...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "syslog_message": "<134>1 2022-06-09T14:44:11-06:00 OPNsense.example.com filterlog 76404 - [meta sequenceId=\"1\"] 124,,,fae559338f65e11c53669fc3642c93c2,ixl1_vlan70,match,pass,out"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    syslog:
      - field: syslog_message
      - target_field: parsed_syslog
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    includes the structured data:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "parsed_syslog": {
        "priority": 134,
        "facility": {
          "code": 16,
          "name": "Local 0"
        },
        "severity": {
          "code": 6,
          "name": "Informational"
        },
        "hostname": "OPNsense.example.com",
        "appname": "filterlog",
        "pid": 76404,
        "message": "124,,,fae559338f65e11c53669fc3642c93c2,ixl1_vlan70,match,pass,out"
      }
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### CEF

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Parsing a Cisco Firepower CEF message...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "syslog_message": "<134>MAR  1 16:23:11 policyuuid CEF:0|Cisco|Firepower|6.0|PV:112:1234:5678|POLICY VIOLATION|5|rt=1687855290000;deviceExternalId=12;act=Alerted;dvchost=10.50.60.100"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    syslog:
      - field: syslog_message
      - target_field: parsed_syslog
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    extracts the CEF data:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "parsed_syslog": {
        "priority": 134,
        "facility": {
          "code": 16,
          "name": "Local 0"
        },
        "severity": {
          "code": 6,
          "name": "Informational"
        },
        "hostname": "policyuuid",
        "message": "CEF:0|Cisco|Firepower|6.0|PV:112:1234:5678|POLICY VIOLATION|5|rt=1687855290000;deviceExternalId=12;act=Alerted;dvchost=10.50.60.100"
      }
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>

### Error Messages

<ExampleGrid>
  <CommentCol>
    Parsing the error level messages...
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "syslog_message": "<27>1 2021-07-03T22:17:01.074560-05:00 pfSense.example.com openvpn 66026 - - TLS Error: cannot locate HMAC in incoming packet from [AF_INET]175.16.199.1:34745"
    }
    ```
    ```yaml
    syslog:
      - field: syslog_message
      - target_field: parsed_syslog
    ```
  </CodeCol>
  <CommentCol>
    correctly identifies the severity:
  </CommentCol>
  <CodeCol>
    ```json
    {
      "parsed_syslog": {
        "priority": 27,
        "facility": {
          "code": 3,
          "name": "System"
        },
        "severity": {
          "code": 3,
          "name": "Error"
        },
        "hostname": "pfSense.example.com",
        "appname": "openvpn",
        "pid": 66026,
        "message": "TLS Error: cannot locate HMAC in incoming packet from [AF_INET]175.16.199.1:34745"
      }
    }
    ```
  </CodeCol>
</ExampleGrid>
