docs/gui/fleet-management/directors/creating-directors.mdx, before:

# Creating Directors

To create a new director

- Go to the **Home** page
- Find the **Fleet Management** pane 
- Click the **Directors** link.

On the next page, click the **Create director** button. This will take you to the area where you will name and install a new director. You can also manage the already installed directors here.

On the **Director Setup** tab

- In the text box under **Name**, enter a unique name for director. If the name was used before, you will get an error when you attempt to create the director.
- In the **Choose installation type**, select _Standalone_. This will install **Director** on a single machine.

:::note
This type of installation is not backed up and has no load balancing.
:::

If at some point you change your mind, you can click **Cancel** to terminate the process.

To continue, click the **Create director** button.

This creates a record for the director and confirms that it was added to the list. You will also be notified that the director is not yet installed or enabled because a **Director** has not been installed for it.

To install a **Director** for the director you have created, you will have to run an installation script. The interface provides the platform-specific script with the **PowerShell** (default) and **Bash** buttons.

Under these buttons, you will see a box containing a newly-generated API key. You will use this to install a **Director**.

<Include id="admin-for-installation-script" />

- Open a terminal window with administrator privileges.
- Copy the key and script above.
- Paste them into the terminal.
- Press <kb-short>Enter</kb-short> to run the script.

This will take a few minutes to complete.

To the right, you will see a **Verify connection** button. Clicking this button starts sending a request to check whether a **Director** has been installed.

<Include id="connection-verification-failure" />

If the connection is not verified, you can use the **Connect Later** button to defer this installation step. However, the not-yet-enabled director will still appear on the directors list.

Once the connection is verified, a **Connection successful** message is displayed.

To complete the process, click the enabled **Complete setup** button and return to the directors list. You will see a notification that a new director has been created and connected above the table, and the newly-created director will appear in the list as _Enabled_ and _Connected_.

Commit message:

Add important notes regarding port requirements for pull and push devices, and update connection verification failure note style

docs/gui/fleet-management/directors/creating-directors.mdx, after:

# Creating Directors

To create a new director

- Go to the **Home** page
- Find the **Fleet Management** pane 
- Click the **Directors** link.

On the next page, click the **Create director** button. This will take you to the area where you will name and install a new director. You can also manage the already installed directors here.

On the **Director Setup** tab

- In the text box under **Name**, enter a unique name for director. If the name was used before, you will get an error when you attempt to create the director.
- In the **Choose installation type**, select _Standalone_. This will install **Director** on a single machine.

:::note
This type of installation is not backed up and has no load balancing.
:::

If at some point you change your mind, you can click **Cancel** to terminate the process.

To continue, click the **Create director** button.

This creates a record for the director and confirms that it was added to the list. You will also be notified that the director is not yet installed or enabled because a **Director** has not been installed for it.

To install a **Director** for the director you have created, you will have to run an installation script. The interface provides the platform-specific script with the **PowerShell** (default) and **Bash** buttons.

Under these buttons, you will see a box containing a newly-generated API key. You will use this to install a **Director**.

<Include id="admin-for-installation-script" />

- Open a terminal window with administrator privileges.
- Copy the key and script above.
- Paste them into the terminal.
- Press <kb-short>Enter</kb-short> to run the script.

This will take a few minutes to complete.

:::info Important
At this point, make sure that port `443` is open for outgoing connections.
:::

To the right, you will see a **Verify connection** button. Clicking this button starts sending a request to check whether a **Director** has been installed.

<Include id="connection-verification-failure" />

If the connection is not verified, you can use the **Connect Later** button to defer this step. However, the not-yet-enabled director will still appear on the directors list.

Once the connection is verified, a **Connection successful** message is displayed.

To complete the process, click the enabled **Complete setup** button and return to the directors list. You will see a notification that a new director has been created and connected above the table, and the newly-created director will appear in the list as _Enabled_ and _Connected_.
