docs/getting-started.mdx, before:

# Getting Started

To download, install, and run **VirtualMetric Director**, follow the instructions below.

## System Requirements

**Director** is agnostic to its platform. It can run on any of the supported 32-bit and 64-bit versions of **Windows**, **macOS**, **Linux**, **Solaris**, and **AIX**. Its minimum requirements are:

- **16MB** of memory
- **220MB** of disk space

## Download

You can download the **Director** package by clicking [this link](www.example.com). You can also install the software directly through the CLI:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
  ```PowerShell
  C:\Users\<user>\winget install ???
  ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">
  ```bash
  ~: ???
  ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>


## Install

**VirtualMetric Director** does _not_ require any installation: you can place it in any directory you wish.

## Configure

You can start using **Director** without any initial configuration.

:::warning[do not forget]
The directory where the package is placed must be added to the `PATH` environment variable.
:::

## Run

Now that you have downloaded **Director** and placed it in your directory of choice (we will assume you have added that directory to your `PATH`, and we will refer to that directory as `<vm_root>`), you can start running it from the CLI.

Open a terminal, and navigate to any directory you wish&mdash;we will use the `home` directory here. Then, type the name of the executable (i.e. `vmetric-director`) and press <kb-short>Enter</kb-short>.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
  ```PowerShell
  C:\Users\<user>\vmetric-director
  ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">
  ```bash
  ~/vmetric-director
  ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Now we will configure the `vmetric.yml` file under `<vm_root>`. You can use any text editor for this task since files with the `yml` extension are text files.

Commit message:

Removed the Features chapter and merged it with About; proofed and added graphics to About.

docs/getting-started.mdx, after:

# Getting Started

To download, install, and run **VirtualMetric Director**, follow the instructions below.

## System Requirements

**Director** is agnostic to its platform. It can run on any of the supported 32-bit and 64-bit versions of **Windows**, **macOS**, **Linux**, **Solaris**, and **AIX**. Its minimum requirements are:

- **16MB** of memory
- **220MB** of disk space

## Download and Install

You can download the **Director** package by clicking [this link](www.example.com).

**VirtualMetric Director** does _not_ require any installation: you can place it in any directory you wish.

If you have access to **Platform**, you can also download it through the CLI by first generating a hash, and then using

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
  ```PowerShell
  iwr http://vget.me/d/ps
  ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">
  ```bash
    curl -fsSL vget.me/d/sh
  ```
  -or-
  ```bash
  wget -qO- vget.me/d/sh
  ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

{/* TODO: Check the command line install procedure */}

## Configure

You can start using **Director** without any initial configuration.

:::warning[attention]
Do not forget to add the directory where the package was placed to the `PATH` environment variable.
:::

## Run

Now that you have downloaded **Director** and placed it in your directory of choice (we will assume you have added that directory to your `PATH`, and we will refer to that directory as `<vm_root>`), you can start running it from the CLI.

Open a terminal, and navigate to any directory you wish&mdash;we will use the `home` directory here. Then, type the name of the executable (i.e. `vmetric-director`) and press <kb-short>Enter</kb-short>.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>
  ```PowerShell
  C:\Users\<user>\vmetric-director
  ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">
  ```bash
  ~/vmetric-director
  ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Now we will configure the `vmetric.yml` file under `<vm_root>`. You can use any text editor for this task since files with the `yml` extension are text files.
